Financial intelligence Great, great read. Very insightful and easy to understand. The author has a unique way of writing that is super humble , I am a fan
Unlock the psychology behind your personal finances "The Psychology of Money: Timeless lessons on wealth, greed, and happiness" is a thought-provoking book that provides valuable insights into the psychology behind personal finance. The author, Morgan Housel, presents a refreshing perspective on money and how it intersects with our lives, both practically and emotionally.  What stood out most to me was the engaging writing style, which made complex concepts easy to understand. Housel uses real-world examples to illustrate his points, making the book relatable and relevant. Additionally, the author's focus on the behavioral aspect of personal finance, rather than just the technical aspect, is insightful and refreshing.  However, if you are like me you may have expected some sort of actionable advice on managing money, this was not the case. While it provides a valuable understanding of the psychology behind money, it does not offer specific tips or strategies for managing one's finances.  I read this book on the Amazon Kindle Paperwhite, and it was a very enjoyable and seamless read on the device, showing that it was well adapted to the e-reader.  Overall, "The Psychology of Money" would be best suited for readers who are interested in understanding the intersection between money and psychology. It would be particularly useful for those who may struggle with managing their finances or those who are seeking a new perspective on personal finance. The book is a great read for those who want to gain a deeper understanding of the emotional and psychological drivers behind our financial decisions. This is a staple in a collection for building a better financial mindset.
quick review of decision making about money I like the book. It gave a perspective of to be financially successful is to be patient. There are some great examples of how things can go horribly wrong if you don’t manage your greed.  However I found some chapters are very generic a general ( chapter about story). There are some over generalizations here and there. Overall it’s a good book to read
Wish I read this book sooner as an investor Very solid book that gives you the opportunity to think critically as an investor. I've read a lot of investing books and very few of them push you to think. Every investing book tells you that their strategy is the best or argues where their strategy is more preferred, but the reality is that everyone's lives and situations are different. As investor you have to look at your own situation and invest according to what will work for you. As explained in the book you always want to be careful who you take advice from, because often times people are playing a different game than you and taking that advice can lead you down a rough path.
Must read book with timeless lessons Great insights and lessons for all. Psycholology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed and Happiness by Morgan Housel is a timeless work about how our feelings, emotions and interactions with money often results in different outcomes for different people – because people are different. So, insights into how to think and behave about money is instructive. The author explains in an easy way to understand for the reader financial concepts that should be thought in school.  Simple read, goes into short stories about finance geniuses and failures who we can all learn something from based on their behavior and what got them to be successful or fail in the finance realm. Touches on some key points and strategies when it comes to finance and investments and what one can actually accomplish to succeed with investments and finances. Very condensed, definitely worth a read if you are looking to learn some basics as well as important strategies to manage your earnings.
Great foundation read If you’re looking to learn more about finances this is a great book to add to your library. It provides a unique perspective towards to understanding how the financial world works and how psychology plays a huge factor in this realm. Furthermore it indirectly helps to (re)build self-confidence towards how one looks and “feels” about their financial situation (past, present and future).  The author does an eloquent job to present the material in a way that make it easy to digest and apply what they read.
Amazing book I think everyone who needs to read this book. It explains the most complicated concepts in investing in the simplest and most understandable way.
One if the best books on personal finance I've ever read! Great book. Very insightful!
Great book for the money obsessed. This is a wonderful book. I heard an interview with the author on the Prof G podcast and decided to give it a read. It is the kind of book that will make you take a long hard look at your relationship with money and how it makes you feel. I came to realize I am the way I am largely because I grew up in a home where my father was constantly out of work and money was constantly a worry.  Great read if you want to better understand why you and everyone else behave the way you do with your money and how you can work to save more and be more financially successful.
Excellent Excellent book. Easy to read, easy to digest. Highly recommend
Stayed up till 4 am to finish.... Dang it Michael. I am going to be a zombie today because I only got 2 hours sleep and it's all your fault. This is an amazing book. I'm a lifelong fangirl of the Seinfeld show, and I bought this excited to read some backstory for that amazing series. I had no idea that this book would be so inspiring. You're chanelling Vonnegut here. I read over 100 books a year since I have a tragic reading addiction (and I'm mid-40's so I've read thousands of books) but this may be my new favourite. All this was buzzing around inside the K-Man's head the whole time! The levels! The kavorka! The damn philosophy of the world! Giddyup, dude. Job well done. Gonna read it again today.
Wonderful insights into the creative life Michael’s book beautifully captures the knife’s edge existence that so many creatives live. Are you pursuing a crazy, senseless idea or onto something big? Do people love you or hate you, or do you need to know what time it is before you can answer that question? Most importantly, when you are frustrated or overlooked or scared… how do you channel that energy to shift the odds in your favor? I’m reading the book next to a canal in Venice, far away from my normal daily life, and am loving it.
Cosmo Kramer Three-time Emmy Award–winning actor Michael Richards, beloved for starring as Cosmo Kramer on the groundbreaking television series Seinfeld and considered one of the great physical comedians of our time, serves up an irresistibly candid, insightful, humorous, and complex memoir about his life and storied career with Jerry Seinfeld, Larry David, Jason Alexander, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, and other celebrated figures in show business.
Human and heartfelt I just got the book yesterday, and having grown up on Seinfeld, I was very eager to begin it. The writing is lucid and sharp—the book is rooted within humility and honesty, and I couldn't recommend it more.
Yes, yes yes Love love love. Inside look at an anomaly of a person.
Entrances and exits Excellent book by Michael Richard’s I enjoyed this book
Super food recipes for your best friends! I was so excited to receive my hard cover copy however while waiting there was a pre release in our area of the book where I also received a free signed copy and met the authors. This is not just a book of knowledge but has beautiful photographs to inspire your mind while you make new recipes for your beloved pet. Rodney is a bit of a local hero in his home town and I have had the pleasure of working with him years ago to help two of my pets. One with cancer and one with stomach issues. His help helped them both live longer and healthier lives. Dr.Becker is also amazing and the co authors work so well together,to give us easy to ready and follow instructions,to make our pets lives longer and healthier. There is nothing else out there that I’d rather follow or use in the everyday care of my pets. Thank you for all you do for our pets!
Best purchase I've made I preordered this book several months ago and just received it last night, and all i can say is WOW!!! This is the book I have dreamed about. As a holistic pet parent who has worked in the pet health industry there have been very few resources for pet parents looking to actively make changes in their dog's diet, lifestyle and product use. The onus has always been on the pet owner to do their own research and weigh the conflicting views and theories on their own. This book is magic, and filled with so many insightful tips, recipes for food and household items
My expectations have been outdone! Awesome in content, appearance, intention, and energy. Informative, educational, functional, and fun! The recipes aren't all about food, but also about the household environment and the body too. Suitable for beginners worried about doing it "right" when it comes to nutritional gaps through to experienced fresh feeders looking for creative ideas and new recipes. You don't need to "do it all" to make a difference, and you don't have to be overwhelmed by needing to do it all at once either: small steps will take you great distances.
Great info This book is awesome, great info, recipes and treats.
A book of love!! I started following Dr. Karen Becker since 2017 and she shocked my perception as to how to be a good dog parent and what is truely good for our dogs, was totally overwhelmed when i watched the documentary 'Pet Fooled' and i couldn't believe what people would do to our beloved dogs for money, ever since i see the commercial dog food/product world in a different way so when the 'Forever Dog' came out i was really excited, the book mentions over and over again food is the key and i thought to myself if we could have some sort of guideline/recipes would be great since we all want to prolong our dogs' lives and i accidentally saw they were going to publish this recipe book, and today afternoon i finally received it and it is beautiful, informative, and fun! i wish i could open up a doggy bakery that sells all the ready-to-eat snacks in this book, the most important thing is they are simple and easy to follow, you don't need to buy 12 new ingrediants just to make a new snack/dish for you dog, not only recipes but it also has useful information like what kinda dog bowl is non-toxic and what kinda eggs are the most nutritious, or what kinda water - all of that is something a lot of people never think of, including the vets, so it is not just a cookbook s it is also a book to help your dog to live longer, i am so happy that we are improving for our dogs because they deserve it for the way they love us no matter what and it is indeed a book of love! thank you Dr. Karen Becker and Rodney Habib!  my babygirl Joelis is going to be 9 in Oct/Nov and as much as i want to, i know she's not going to be here forever, she's the best thing that ever happened to me and even one day she might be gone but i know she'll always be with me, encouraging me to face life's challenges like she did, she's taught me so many things which i will never forget - until then i'll keep cooking for her and be happy that we are still together!
What a beautiful book and this is going to really help pet guardians do Better This book is a must for all pet guardians. It is going to help you know what to add to your dogs diets. 1. It is a gorgeous book. Such great visuals to back up what the authors wanted you to learn. 2. Incredible recipes to feed your pet a diet for the their health and longevity. 3. It explains how ingredients can help your dog and us too! 4. This book is backed by science as was their 1st book. 5. If you loved the 1st book, you will love this one . The Forever Dog Life is your how to manual. 6. If you did not read the 1st book and are a geek of learning everything you need to know about your dogs health, get it and this book. ( they have a ressource to keep you uptodate)
The best book purchase you’ll ever make!! This book is a life changer for all dog owners who want to do better for their pets!! An amazing book full of recipes and natural remedies to lengthen your dog’s life. The book is top quality and the photographs are amazing! The recipes look good enough for humans to eat too.
Feed your pets what you yourself would eat I pre-ordered this books several months ago and just could not wait to receive it. For years we were led to believe that kibbles contained everything a dog needed to stay healthy and prosper. As time went on I turned to raw food for the first meal of the day followed by kibbles at night. Even though I knew I was meeting their needs everything looked really plain and boring so I started adding little toppers. We've been told what we should and should not feed our pets for so long that it's absolutely mind boggling to find out that a lot of this was completely wrong. I'm so excited to be able to offer my 2 girls appetizing and varied meals. No more eating the same old, same old everyday. I haven't gotten very far reading the book yet because there are so many things I need to add to my grocery list that it keeps interrupting me. I can't wait to start offering them what they deserve to be fed.  My recommendation - buy this book and treat your pets like the valued members of the family they truly are. You won't regret it and neither will they.
Best animal health book EVER!!!! I have been following the work of Dr.Becker and Rodney for years and absolutely LOVED their first book The Forever Dog - it has been my bible for animal health. After loosing every single dog I have EVER owned to cancer and working in the veterinary and animal care field, seeing what our modern dog goes thru - it has been my sole focus to do everything in my power to help my little dog Jersey live a healthy life - thriving everyday. The Forever Dog has helped me do exactly that and now The Forever Dog Life only helps put more of what I have learned into practise - this is a book for EVERY dog owner. All the amazing recipes and tips - I’ve never felt more empowered to help my little girl. Thank you Karen and Rodney. I have bought multiple copies of this book and will be gifting them to family and friends.
Fantastic book! A must read for pet parents everywhere! I , like so many others , pre-ordered this book in Jan. It was released and arrived on the promised date of June 4. I could not wait to dig in and learn as much as I can. My pets have always eaten human grade food, now I can take it to the next level. The recipes are not complex, and are easy to follow. The visuals are beautifully done! I love the inclusion of treats and toppers- Chapter 3, and the easy to make, home cleaning products! This book is long overdue. I hope pet parents everywhere are able to purchase this well thought out and well researched book. Vets should have this in their clinics! Thank you Rodney and Dr. Karen. FANTASTIC work to provide the best possible preventative medicine for our 4 legged family members! An ounce of prevention, is worth a pound of cure! You and your pets will not be disappointed!
Great graduation gift It’s dr. Seuss, need I say more
Great for graduation Still one of my favourite Dr Seuss books ever! I have read it so many times I barely even need to look at the words when I read it to my son. The message it gives is fantastic and very true to life; sometimes things will go perfectly for you, except when they don’t because sometimes they won’t. But not to worry cause the good times will come again. Highly recommend!! For an age I selected 4 years but to be honest I’m in my 40’s and still read it. It is great for people of any age.
A must for each child I have thought this book for my children. Each year I get their teacher to sign in. It’s such a special book and collection to give to your child.
I got this for me As a get to celebrate my degree i got it for me. And put it in my daughter's room 2 birds 1 stone lol
Great gift This has been on my graduation gift giving for so long. Such a great book to give to help graduates know how far they have come and how far they will go with the right encouragement.
Dr Seuss never fails. Perfect grad gift
Perfect Grad Gift I’ve bought this book several times to give as a high school grad gift. The words are perfect Always appreciated!
Treasure your memories Great book to get teachers to sign yearly for your child’s memories
Great story Like a lot of reviews I read, the dust jacket was damaged due to insufficient care in packaging for shipping. Fortunately the book was not damaged. Damage could be easily avoided by placing book on a paper envelope or sleeve prior to putting it in a box with other items.
Very cute I bought this for my daughter to have her teachers sign and add a note to every year until she graduates. It’s a cute story and now has lots of kind words from people who have been a part of her journey so far!
Lovely story Great Father's Day gift for toddler and dad
Great Fathers Day present Great book for Daddy and son to read together.
Great book! Dad loved it!
Best book for father's day. Such a sweet read. Very sweet and loving book to read with your child. Great quality book. This book is great for little kids aged 8 and under. More of a kindergarten - grade 2 book. Great read for bedtime with your child. I also purchased "why a son needs a mom" book for mother's day. Wonderful set of books to have.
Lovely story Great gift lovely sentiment behind the story.
Quite boring to read to a kid Kids like stories. Not a bunch of short 4 liner poems. This is just a book with a different poem and a picture on each page. Quite boring. The language is also difficult for kids to understand.
Good messages The book is nicely illustrated and it teaches important life lessons for young children. I had my grandson sign every page of Text with his preschool signature that will be more and more precious over the years.
Sweet, endearing book This book speaks to the dads as much as it does to the child. I gave it to my son for his son. My grandson loves the images even though he doesn't yet understand all the words. I think he also reacts to the gentleness in his father's voice as he reads the sentimental messages. Loved this purchase.
Cute gift I got this for my husband when we found out we were having a boy. It was a sweet surprise gift that he enjoyed. It’s a sweet book
Great condition. Easy read I can’t wait to read this book to my son
Great for Father’s Day gift Got this book for Father’s Day. Super cute book, and made for a great gift. Perfect to read to our little one.
Book These were a gift and they loved it!
Perfect Father’s Day gift The media could not be loaded. My husband purchased this book’s counterpart, “Why a Son Needs a Mom”, for me to read to my son. I loved that book so dang much I HAD to bless him the same way with this one. The first and last page of the two books are the same, and I actually enjoy the connection. It’s sentimental and sweet and a perfect gift for Father’s Day. Oh and your babe will love it too, of course!
Cute Perfect for Father's Day!
Love this book I love this book.
So sweet I got this book for my son to give to his father. Very cute read. They both enjoyed the reading together. The thickness of the book is easy to turn the pages. The words are big, invisible. The colors are cool and vibrant. Great book! Love the collection.
Great book Great book for a new dad.
Such a Great Father's Day Gift! The media could not be loaded. I bought this for my son to give to his dad for his first Father's Day. It's very well written and has beautiful illustrations throughout the book. I think this is a great book that both will cherish.
Cute book Got this for my son when his son was born cute book. Great quality
Amazing book The book is made of great quality. The story and message is absolutely perfect. It was a gift for my grandsons daddy, so that he could read to him as he grows.
A must have! This book is written so well. It has a few funny quotes for parents. ( From popular movies) It has a very important message for kids and adults. It's funny, emotional and intellectual!!! Absolutely loved it. Your kids will not put this book down. Thank you Dav Pilkey
Love Dog Man Our kidlets absolutely adore The Dog Man series. We have the complete collection in English and about half of the collection in French. This was another excellent installation in the series. Humorous, well written, lots of fun to read for the whole family! Would definitely recommend
Excellent series! Both my grandsosn, aged 10 and 7, love this series. And I love that they are a take off on some very classic novels!
My son love it My son has all the dogman books and this is the new release . So I bought this and the comic books help kids to read easily.
Great book for early readers Got this book for my Nephew as a birthday present, and he absolutely loves it. Great stories. Easy for younger readers. Fun stories. Great illustrations
Very quick read If you are a fan of the Dog Man series you'll already have an idea of the pot lines. If not, they appeal to young readers and boys seem to identify the humour readily. I can't speak to girls because i don't have any to query. This volume is a quick, enjoyable read.
Another great book! My son has all of the Dog Man books and his face lit up when he got this one. He’s been reading it during Spring Break and quite enjoys the stories and stories adventures.
Fun/silly kids title Our 7 year old was very excited to get this newest book in the series. They are pretty silly books- but our kids do tend to reread them multiple times so that is a great bonus
Great quality Grandaughter loved it
Love this series! My 9 year old loves these books and has got his whole class interested in them now too! What a fantastic way to get young people interested in reading.
Good activity book Cute pictures and great quality book
Fun and Challenging Activity for Kids This Bluey Search has a varying level of challenge for kids. Some pages are definitely more challenging than others so it's great for beginner skill level and up. There is also a special bonus where you can search for Long Dog on each page which is a lot of fun. The pages are colourful and have a variety of scenes from the show. My 4 year old had a blast doing this search book and has done it several times.
Perfect for Bluey fans! My toddler loves I Spy and search-and-find books, and she is a huge fan of Bluey. I was so excited to find this because it combines both of those obsessions. We've had this book for a couple months now, and it is still one of our most read books on the shelf. It has a nice mix of scenes and characters from Bluey episodes, and a good blend of challenge in terms of how difficult it is to find things.
Strong smell Book looks good; I think having images as clues (instead of words) is great for their ages (2.5, 4.5).  However, it has a very strong smell. I stood it up on my kitchen counter with items propping all the pages open and even 10+ hours later I catch a whiff of gasoline? fuel? when I walk into my kitchen…probably the ink. I’ll leave it there overnight and wrap it in the morning before we leave and hopefully the smell will have faded.  Update: smell was still noticeable in the morning. Hopefully it didn't bother the recipients too much.
Granddaughter loves this book. Loved the illustrations. Granddaughter enjoys the search and find format. Perfect for 2 1/2 year old.
Fun search and find Both my 4 and 1 year old love finding bluey and all her friends in this book.
Perfect search and find for the young ones. I bought this book for my bluey loving son and let me tell you, it's been a great book. My son loves it so much and so do I! It's not too hard but not too easy in the sense of obvious, to spot the items/characters. It keeps my little one entertained and you can create your own objects to find in each page.
I wish I got the hardcover. This book is an instant classic! A younger version of the classic I Spy books, Bluey themed! Big excitement for my nieces to get this for Christmas, just wish I’d purchased the hardcover. This is a fun way to bond with your kid too, if you’re looking for an idea or activity to do together.
The kid loved it Our 21 month grandson has spent hours flipping through the book.
Arrived on time Great book for my 2 year old grandson
Great purchase My grand daughter loves this book. Great purchase!
Very cute but strong smell? I bought this for my 3 year old niece and she loved it but it had a very odd chemically smell to it. Not sure what it was but it took some time before it went away. My niece did enjoy it though.
Such fun! My son loves this book so much! It keeps him occupied for a long time. Only reason it's 4 stars because I wish the pages were laminated, or a bit more sturdy.
Livré à temps. J’aimerais que les livres de Bluey soit traduits en français.  Bcp de plaisir à trouver Bluey avec ma plus jeune petite fille de 2ans 10 mois.
Must Get!! My daughter absolutely loves this book! Definitely a must have for any bluey lovers
Granddaughter loves it Quite a bit of money for this book and quality is just ok. The book would be much better in a hard cover
Great book My daughter is 2 and she absolutely loves finding all the characters and items in the book
Great book Bought this for my 2 year old niece and it's perfect. Book is made well.
Granddaughters My two granddaughters age 2 and four loved this book.
Its ok I liked that there's a long dog in all pages like in bluey's show just a little bit disappointed for the prints on two pages
Great Book Got it twice and will buy more as gift. Excellent book to nurture the young minds.
Childhood in a book. "The Very Hungry Caterpillar" by Eric Carle is the epitome of childhood encapsulated in a book. With its vivid illustrations and straightforward narrative, this timeless classic effortlessly transports young readers into a world of enchantment and discovery. The charming story follows the journey of a voracious caterpillar as it munches through various foods, teaching little ones about counting, days of the week, and the transformative process in a beautifully simple manner. Carle's distinctive collage-style artwork and interactive cut-out designs on each page add an extra layer of engagement, making it a beloved choice for both children and the adults who share the experience.  As a cherished part of many households, "The Very Hungry Caterpillar" has transcended generations, creating a shared connection between readers young and old. Its enduring popularity is a testament to its ability to evoke fond memories of childhood and the joy of storytelling. This book is not just a literary masterpiece; it's a cherished memory that brings families together, celebrating the pure wonder and magic of being a child.
Child wants to read it every night Bought this booked based on reviews. Our child LOVES it, wants us to read it to him every night. It’s not so long, easy for toddler to understand. Perfect for bedtime !
Great book and educational My daughter loves this book and it is helping her learn numbers. Highly recommend this book!
Great Kids book This was my kids favourite book so I bought for a new mom to be
Love it! Childhood favourite
Great Book - Ages 6 and Under. What a wonderful book. I remember it from my childhood. Helps to teach young children numbers. Book is for children 6 and under I would say. Preschool age. I used this book as a teaching tool while practicing to become an Early Childhood Educator. Board book. Book arrived smaller in size than I expected (that's why it got a 4 hot a 5 star).
Reading My grandson wanted this book, he enjoys the size it fits in the container between the car seats. He likes the colours
Love this book. Great classic book - nice bright colours and fun to read!
Good book Exactly what you would expect.
An instant HIT!!!! I usually bounce back and forth with my books between cheesy romance, beachy reads and edge of my seat suspense.  This book was like none of those things.  It's a mix of fantasy and romance and adventure and magic and honestly so much more! I had no idea what I was in for, but man, what a ride!  This story has you on your toes, travelling between two very different places. One we know and one I think we'd love to know! Come on, who can't think of someone they'd like to incinerate.  I can't wait to read it again!
Read it, it’s great. I am not typically a fantasy reader...in fact this was my first. Buttttt OMG ... to say I had a good time would simply be an understatement. Couldn't put it down and stayed up far too late to finish it. Had to sit for a bit once it was over and stare at a wall to contemplate some things. Long story short, READ ITTTTT.  If you like plot twists, this is your book. If you like things a little dark, this is your book. If you like a little magic and a tall, dark and handsome brooding main character, this is your book. If you like a relatable main character who isn't afraid to hold her own, you guessed it, this is your book.  Fantasy always intimidated me a bit as I didn't think I'd be able to keep track of the complicated plot lines and magic/other-worldly shenanigans' could be a turn off. I found that the plot thickened and that's what made it so good. The author added the layers slowly and carefully to craft this whole other world, while relating it enough back to reality to keep it grounded. The magic was there and made is special but didn't overshadow the storyline or us falling in love with the characters.  Again....READ THE BOOK....I'm pretty sure you won't regret it.
Great novel! Loved reading the parts I was able to and looking forward to reading the rest!
Excellent Story - Amazon Damaged My Book. It's minor damage, but I ordered a new, unused copy. From the damage on the spine, book jacket, etc., it looked more like it's been used before. There was no protective packaging, either. Not impressed as my copy of Fourth Wing came in pristine condition, with protective packaging. Not sure where to turn that issue in, if that's a here issue or to take it up with Amazon another route.  As far as sequels go, I really enjoyed this one. It's still very much Fourth Wing and the Fourth Wing World, but it's it own beast entirely. I think the first one is still a bit better, but as far as the book itself goes - was very enjoyable. I still laughed, cried, went through the paces. I can't wait for Black Onyx to come out. A bit terrified, as how the story leaves off.  I also wouldn't consider this book, or the whole series, as "spicy." I kind of have to laugh, because it's really tame. The scenes are good, don't get me wrong. I feel like there could be more without taking away from the story. Perhaps some descriptive language. But the way people rave about it makes it seem like they're doing the horizontal tango every chapter. They do not. Maybe that says something about me and the filthy things I've read prior, but uh...I wouldn't even consider this super smutty.  Honestly, I really like the balance of story, romance, action and adventure. That's some elements of a perfect book for me.  I really like and recommend this series.
Badassery meets vulnerability in this middle-of-series sequel ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️: Badassery meets vulnerability in this middle-of-series sequel. Book 1 set the stage and book 2 delves into the inner workings of our beloved characters, adding more depth and evolution. This book reads like a roughing out of the edges, in preparation for the momentous events to come. Whereas Fourth Wing captured my heart and soul and left me begging for more, Iron Flame ensured that I remained faithful, as we wait for the rest of the story to unfold. Warning: another cliffhanger ending without a potential release date for book 3.  I am a hardcore fan of The Empyrean, a romantic fantasy series set in a dragon rider war academy, and Iron Flame, book 2, did not disappoint in the least. I love Rebecca Yarros' writing style and all of her characters are 😘 (even the ones that you love to hate). Fast paced in some parts and slower moving in others, Yarros keeps you on edge, guessing throughout. You need to read book 1 (Fourth Wing) before reading Iron Flame, as it is a continuation of the major cliffhanger that we were dealt at the end of book 1. I was tugging my hair in frustration at times, wanting to slap some sense into some of the characters, and cheering them on for their strength and tenacity at times.  ❤️: At its very core, The Empyrean is a romance series. The romantic ups and downs between Xaden and Violet is present throughout book 2 (sometimes in a deliciously frustrating way). Which bring us to... 👫: Characters & evolution: Violet and Xaden have much to learn about themselves, individually, as people and as warriors, and as a couple, and this book takes them through a myriad of emotional and physical challenges. I love that Yarros' characters can be both very strong and very vulnerable at once. I connected with Violet's vulnerable side. Both characters are flawed, which makes them relatable. Xaden is definitely in my top book boyfriends.  🗣: 1st person, present tense, from the MFC's pov (with one chapter from the MMC's p0v) 😴: Did I lose sleep over this book? YES! There were times when I just couldn't put it down ♻️: Will I read again? Absolutely. As soon as I get a new credit on Audible, I'm getting the audiobook. 🔚: Ending: Cliffhanger. 🌶: Explicit sex: Just the right amount in my opinion. Tension builds and then you get rewarded for your patience. The sexual content doesn't overpower the story but its spicy and descriptive enough for those who love the element of spice. 🤬: Language: Swearing, violent language, descriptive sex and F-Bombs ⚠️: Triggers: Death, violence, gore, torture, dismemberment, mourning
Hmmm thoughts I'm not sure how I feel about this one. It was certainly good, but a little predictable. I'll read the next one, of course. The very end, changing to Xaden's POV for one chapter, was a little frustrating. I understand why it was done, but I personally wanted more from him.
Great fantasy read! Well written. Great characters and story that surprises often. Buy it.
But, I LOVE Xaddy! Again, the hype is still real. JUST. READ. IT!  After making it through the first year - something no one (except, of course, the greatest man ever written, Xaden aka Xaddy) believed possible for her - Violet is now a second year. Parapet and threshing are comparable to the training that happens in second year as this is when, according to Xaden "... the rest of us lose our humanity".  New-ish characters placed in her path are literally out to ensure Violet doesn't make it to third year. She'll have to fight and push herself even harder than last year and truly understand what it means to not only be a rider, but a rider whose dragon is mated.  "Secrets make for poor leverage. They die with the people who keep them" and while many a secret come to light, I can not begin to fathom the amount left to be overturned. SO much happens within these 623 pages it feels like it was both a longer and shorter book at the same time. It does start off a little slow, but things pick up, and it hurts putting it down. Information, memories, back story, future possibilities as well as the past are thrown at us with every turn of the page.  The dragons banter is even better this time around. The spice and longing tension has been turned up, and Chapter 48 is an absolute 🌶 masterpiece. More signets are learned, closer bonds between the squads are born, friendship and relationships are tested, & so much more information around what happened in Resson comes to light.  As expected, this ends on another unsuspected cliffhanger, like Fourth Wing did before it - and this one has me distraught beyond belief! I have no words to accurately convey the emotions i am still processing; where I did have multiple ideas of where Iron Flame was going to end, where it did hadn't even crossed my mind!  What is trust, and how can you earn or give it to someone whole? Is the enemy of my enemy really my friend? Do HEA's exist on the Continent? Is there an antidote for everything? Can people truly be redeemed? Are all lives of equal value? What more do the Dragons know? Whats the cost of a royal title? Is forgiveness for you, or them? Is sacrifice truly a gift? Are grudges worth holding onto? Is love enough?  This series is all consuming, and once again I'm left wondering what next to do with myself; we don't yet even have a release date for book 3! All we have is fellow readers, and a love for Xaden - hopefully Malek grants that to be enough.  Thank you @rebeccayarros , but also WTF?!  Original thoughts:  I am distraught.  Chapter 48 is an absolute LITERAL MASTERPIECE. I said what I said.
MY ABSOLUTE FAVOURITE BOOK I loved every second of this book. I could not put it down. It's the whole package. Amazing characters, plot, action, relationships, secrets. I haven't felt so attached to a book in a long time.
So good Like yeah.... couldn't put it down such a good series! Well written and flows so well. You love them all and cheer for their victories and mourn the losses.
It delivered! It was a bit hard to get through it because of Violet. This girl sounds like a whiny brat every second of the book, undermining everyone's efforts, especially Xaden's. But, apart from that, the story is magnificent and written in such an enrapturing way that it had me bouncing my need with anxiety to the end.  I cannot wait for Onyx Storm.
I can’t stop thinking about it!!!!! 𝐌𝐘 𝐇𝐎𝐔𝐒𝐄. 𝐌𝐘 𝐂𝐇𝐀𝐈𝐑. 𝐌𝐘 𝐖𝐎𝐌𝐀𝐍.  First of all, if you’re looking for spoilers, you won’t find them here..  Wow. Just, WOW. Iron Flame picks up where Fourth Wing left off - right smack in the middle of the twist of all twists (IYKYK). I finished a couple days ago, but I had to stew in my feelings.. The book was amazing!! There’s no doubting my love for this world and Rebecca’s writing. Fourth wing is where I fell in love with Basgiath, dragons, a strong-minded heroine and a few of her friends, and the most obvious - Xaden Riorson. Iron Flame left me feeling broken, defeated, sad - ANGRY! And also the book where I started my long sh!t list of characters I loathe – yes, LOATHE 🤭. I mean, I can’t be the only one who has a hard time with trust and redemption..  ᴡᴇ ᴀʀᴇ ᴛʜᴇ ᴡᴇᴀᴘᴏɴs, ᴀɴᴅ ᴛʜɪs ᴘʟᴀᴄᴇ ɪs ᴛʜᴇ sᴛᴏɴᴇ ᴛʜᴇʏ ᴜsᴇ ᴛᴏ sʜᴀʀᴘᴇɴ ᴜs.  ɪ ᴛʜɪɴᴋ ʏᴏᴜ'ᴠᴇ ʙᴇᴇɴ ʟɪᴇᴅ ᴛᴏ ғᴏʀ sᴏ ʟᴏɴɢ ᴛʜᴀᴛ ʏᴏᴜ ᴡᴏɴ'ᴛ ʀᴇᴄᴏɢɴɪᴢᴇ ᴛʜᴇ ᴛʀᴜᴛʜ ᴇᴠᴇɴ ᴡʜᴇɴ ɪᴛ ʜɪᴛs ʏᴏᴜ ɪɴ ᴛʜᴇ ғᴀᴄᴇ.  Xaden, of course, is the swooniest of swoony, and Violet is my girl. Their chemistry, my gods, is just simply ON FIRE. Xaden would do absolutely anything and EVERYTHING for her, but he also pushes her to find her own strength when she starts to doubt herself. He worships her. He loves her wholly. Their love is- Every. Damn. Thing.  ʙᴇᴄᴀᴜsᴇ ʟᴏᴠᴇ, ᴀᴛ ɪᴛ's ʀᴏᴏᴛ, ɪs ʜᴏᴘᴇ. ʜᴏᴘᴇ ғᴏʀ ᴛᴏᴍᴏʀʀᴏᴡ. ʜᴏᴘᴇ ғᴏʀ ᴡʜᴀᴛ ᴄᴏᴜʟᴅ ʙᴇ. ʜᴏᴘᴇ ᴛʜᴀᴛ sᴏᴍᴇᴏɴᴇ ʏᴏᴜ'ᴠᴇ ᴇɴᴛʀᴜsᴛᴇᴅ ʏᴏᴜʀ ᴇᴠᴇʀʏᴛʜɪɴɢ ᴛᴏ ᴡɪʟʟ ᴄʀᴀᴅʟᴇ ᴀɴᴅ ᴘʀᴏᴛᴇᴄᴛ ɪᴛ. ᴀɴᴅ ʜᴏᴘᴇ? ᴛʜᴀᴛ sʜɪᴛ ɪs ʜᴀʀᴅᴇʀ ᴛᴏ ᴋɪʟʟ ᴛʜᴀɴ ᴀ ᴅʀᴀɢᴏɴ.  sᴀʏ ᴛʜᴏsᴇ ᴛʜʀᴇᴇ ʟɪᴛᴛʟᴇ ᴡᴏʀᴅs, ᴀɴᴅ ɪ'ʟʟ ʜᴀᴠᴇ ʏᴏᴜ ɴᴀᴋᴇᴅ ɪɴ sᴇᴄᴏɴᴅs.  ɪ ᴄᴀɴ'ᴛ ʟᴏᴏᴋ ᴀᴡᴀʏ ғʀᴏᴍ ʜɪᴍ, ᴄᴀɴ'ᴛ sᴇᴇ ᴘᴀsᴛ ʜɪᴍ. ᴀs ᴄᴏᴍᴘʟɪᴄᴀᴛᴇᴅ ᴀs ᴏᴜʀ ᴄᴏɴɴᴇᴄᴛɪᴏɴ ɪs, ɪᴛ's ᴀʟsᴏ ᴜɴᴅᴇɴɪᴀʙʟʏ sɪᴍᴘʟᴇ. ʜᴇ's ᴛʜᴇ ʜᴏʀɪᴢᴏɴ, ᴀɴᴅ ɴᴏᴛʜɪɴɢ ᴇxɪsᴛs ʙᴇʏᴏɴᴅ ғᴏʀ ᴍᴇ.  I have so much I want to scream, but I’m going to refrain so not to spoil ANY thing. But just know, the way I’m DYING for book 3, I can’t even take it… I need it like air. There is of course, so much still unfolding, so many secrets - and I have SO MANY questions! Consider me hung over in my Iron Flame daze until further notice because I can’t stop thinking about it.  ᴛʜᴇ ғɪʀsᴛ ʏᴇᴀʀ ɪs ᴡʜᴇɴ sᴏᴍᴇ ᴏғ ᴜs ʟᴏsᴇ ᴏᴜʀ ʟɪᴠᴇs. ᴛʜᴇ sᴇᴄᴏɴᴅ ʏᴇᴀʀ ɪs ᴡʜᴇɴ ᴛʜᴇ ʀᴇsᴛ ᴏғ ᴜs ʟᴏsᴇ ᴏᴜʀ ʜᴜᴍᴀɴɪᴛʏ.
Writing quality and book quality were sorely lacking If you loved this book, I am truly happy that you enjoyed it. If you loved this book, this review is not for you.  A generous 3 stars -- Iron Flame is the talk of the town and after reading and loving Fourth Wing this past summer, I jumped back on the dragon bandwagon. But unlike many other readers, I thought this was a very disappointing read.  Compared to Fourth Wing, Iron Flame was a mere fizzle. It is a slow burn read that for me, dragged most of the way through. This massive 640-page tome was rushed to the printers to ride the Fourth Wing wave and it shows. Not only in the sad quality of my hardcover** but in the obvious neglect of proper editing.  I have no issue DNFing a book and I should have done that here, but there was so much buzz about this book, and admittedly some good twists to keep me reading, that I was hopeful that, through all the filler and whiny melodrama, there would be a great twist just around the corner. But this book needed some serious editing. The superfluous descriptions, info dumping, and underused secondary characters (Sloane, Aaric, Imogen and Cat) and the large number of tertiary characters were frustrating. I feel all these factors wasted page time that Yarros could have used to strengthen and propel her story.  Violet and Xaden seemed like different people. Their insufferable secrets from each other and the "You didn't tell me!/You didn't ask me!" ongoing argument was immature and frustrated me so much. Tairn, the highlight of the book, brought his awesome curmudgeonly humour once again, but I had hoped he and moody teenage Andarna would be more central to the story.  Fourth Wing was an amazing ride, but Iron Flame was a different experience for me entirely. Please know that I am in the vast minority. Many people adored this second installment of the series, I'm just not one of them. Yarros' convoluted storytelling, bouts of useless filler, unnecessary melodrama and poor pacing made this a frustrating read for me. Some of the twists and Tairn in all his grumpy glory bumped my rating up to 3 stars, but it's the marketing team that should get five stars for their ability to create such a fervor around this series. If only the writing and editing had that much attention.  ** Several greyed out, illegible pages and the plain black (no dragon) edging had already started to flake off. The quality of the printing of this book did not influence my review of the story.
Not a perfect book, but a good book 1. I bought the trilogy. All together they were the best books I've read in a while. Separately, they were not perfect but I'm okay with that. I read a lot and tend to dislike books that show no character growth, or have wishy-washy villains, or have insta-love, or have love result from H saving h from sexual violation, or suffer from deus ex machina. I don't particularly care if something is obvious because sometimes I want to read something that is easy and obvious. My brain doesn't want to be challenged 24/7. Also, I love good dialogue- dialogue makes a romantic connection feel real rather than insta-lovey. Is dialogue action-packed? No. Does it slow down pacing? You bet. At this point, you're probably wondering where this review is going? Well, I think that knowing more about me as a reader might make it easier to see/ relate to my views for this book.  Now the fun stuff! ***SPOILERS***  Feyre (the h): This character is complex and goes through several changes throughout the series. In this book, she has her ups and downs. Initially, she is hardened, street-smart and capable with a cynical eye toward romance and happiness and outright hatred and prejudice towards the fae. She also has love for a family who seems to dislike and neglect her. She is not very likeable. But does that make a book bad? No. (Hello, Wuthering Heights.) It is, however, more rare to write an h this way because readers in general tend to want to relate to an h, particularly when it's written in 1st person perspective. So many readers might not be able to get into the story because of their dislike for Feyre. When the far remove her burdens that largely drove who she was, Feyre changes. She doesn't have a purpose to keep her going, to shape her. The pacing of the book suffers a bit here while she tries to sort herself out. She tries to make love and painting her new purposes, and while she has the determination to do so, the fit just isn't right. Does this make the book bad? No. While many people won't like to read about an h that seems somehow "less" this downward arc was necessary to fuel the inevitable reversal toward a more fitting purpose. It drags a bit for sure, but makes the reversal feel more right, more true later on. Did she rush into something with Tamlin. Her feelings do feel a bit rushed but ultimately fit her as a character- going all-in has always been her style from the start. In that sense, the character is consistent. Also, her reluctance to voice her love made me think that deep-down she might have confused love with gratitude. Tamlin was her savior in many ways. For all of these reasons I liked Feyre.  Tamlin (the H): Tamlin was the 1st high fae Feyre had any meaningful interactions with in the 1st book. I never really liked him as an H. He was pretty but basically hollow. He struggles with uncontrolled rage. He had just as much hatred for humans as Feyre did for fae, and his elitist attitude was hinted at throughout this book (though not substantiated until book 2). He also adheres to fae tradition in weird ways- his willing participation in the Fire Night ritual is distasteful because it borders on infidelity (especially since we later learn in book 2 that he can designate a replacement). Tamlin has from the beginning been primarily focused on Tamlin. When things get tough, he sends Feyre away; he doesn't consult or listen to her, but just decides, hinting at his desire to treat her like a possession rather than a person. When he gets a moment of freedom under the mountain he attempts to have sex with Feyre (his wants) instead of trying to escape with or save her (her needs). When Feyre is dying, he can only bring himself to beg for her life, he isn't moved into action. All of these things hint that Tamlin is not a good fit for Feyre. Many readers will not like to read about an H that is so lacking/ ill-fitted. The beautiful part is that these things are only ever hinted at in the writing, not outright stated so you will want to root for Tamlin while also feeling something inexplicably lacking in him. I thought about it lots before I picked up book 2, where my thoughts regarding Tamlin were cemented. Tamlin could not have been written more likeable though. If he was the perfect H then Feyre falling for Rhys in book 2 would have felt like a betrayal, instead of fated, and then Feyre would've been worse than unlikable but detestable as an h.  Lucian: A secondary character who is both interesting and flawed. He hates Feyre at first, but ultimately warms up to her. He is loyal to a fault, siding with Tamlin over and again, even when he thinks it is wrong to do so. A trait that becomes more obvious as the series progresses. Lucian has potential.  Rhysand (villain/other H): Rhysand was the most interesting character in the book (although Nesta was a close second). Rhys was the evil queen's right-hand man. He has done terrible things. Yet, when we meet him (not my favorite bit of the book because of the gross circumstances I do not favor, as mentioned above) there is evidence that he is not all that he seems. He appeared to be interested in Feyre romantically, but the "why" part is not there. Also, it is not 100% certain WHAT drives his actions. He is a mystery. Why did he decide to help her time and again? Why, if he likes her did he decide to put her through nightly humiliation? Why use her to torment Tamlin? He is clearly not 100% a good guy. He is complex.  Other things people often talk about: The sex. There is a lot more sex in this book than in other "YA" books. It seems like that has somehow lead to some amount of controversy. I find that notion very strange as many eons ago when I was a teen, sex was a big part of being a teen- whether or not to have it, who had it, when they had it where and how, what type of birth control to use, etc. Suggestions that a book would have any type of influence on those things are just silly. Teens have sex. It's a fact. Wishing it otherwise does nothing productive. Also, the sex in this series is not "explicit." Every time I see this adjective used, it makes me laugh. I have read many romances and even some erotica. If you truly want something "explicit" check out erotica- phrases like "the apex of my thighs" or the "the length of him" are not "explicit." The copious dialogue. Lots of readers don't like the extended dialogue and also wish to have seen more of the fae world. I am just guessing here, but I am thinking that they are meaning that they wanted less talk and more fairy magic. But, fae are known for more than just their magic. Another key attribute of fae has to do with their words- being able to only speak in rhyme, only speak the truth, answer any question posed, etc. This attribute can be very interesting (see Mortal Instruments series or Dresden Files). And indeed it was put to use throughout the series, sometimes well done other times much too dues ex machina for my liking. Dialogue can be a type of action when done well enough. In this book, it probably could've been better but was good enough for me.  The Fire Night and rape culture. Honestly, I am bothered by this one. I am never fond of rape or sexual violence as a plot device which is why I tend to avoid historical romances almost entirely. In this book, I think the Fire Nite ritual was used in part explain a bit about fae magic and in part to push forward the Feyre-Tamlin relationship while introducing Rhys. I think it both went too far and not far enough. Tamlin's participation cheapens his feelings toward Feyre, just imagine someone saying, "I love you, truly, but I need to go have sex with someone else." And then he came back to Feyre AFTER HAVING SEX WITH SOMEONE ELSE, and bit her to clearly show his possession of her. It doesn't sit well, does it? Additionally, the three fae with bad intentions suggest to Feyre that fae tradition gives them the right to violate her just because she is present. That makes all fae seem brutal and detestable. Thus, it goes too far. But, what about the converse? The Fire Night ritual is supposed to be necessary to ensure the bounty of the land for the next year. But, the spring court is the only court that has/ observes this ritual en mass? That does not really make sense to me. The need for this ritual, especially considering mated bonds are a rare and extremely valued thing, is not properly explained. It really could've been omitted from the book and is one of the few things about the book that I truly did not like. The masks. Some people like them, some don't. The reason given for them was that they were yet another obstacle to a human girl falling in love with Tamlin. I really didn't mind them but I did not like Feyre's reaction to the removal of the masks. While it was consistent with her character (she always had an eye for pretty guys), I thought that it cheapened her character to have her feel relieved that Tamlin was so pretty without his mask. It was very superficial, and further proof that there wasn't much of substance to their "love."  While book 1 is my least favorite of the series, I still really liked it and will definitely re-read it again. Books 2 and 3 get even better and I am looking forward to further writings as well. Hopefully we will get to see what happens to Nesta, Elaine, the 6th queen, and Bryaxis.
Bow Down to the Queen of YA Fantasy This book, with its magic, fairytale roots, and steamy hot romance, deserves ALL of the stars. I loved it!  Here are the five reasons why I gave A Court of Thorns and Roses 5 out of 5 stars (and then some):  ★ FAIRYTALE RETELLING I was a little wary of this story when I discovered that it was a fairytale retelling. I love the story of Beauty and the Beast. Growing up, I watched the Disney version all of the time (but not as much as I watched Pocahontas). However, in the past I have struggled to find enjoyment in Beauty and the Beast retellings. Particularly Beastly by Alex Flinn -- I did not enjoy the book or the movie.  I think I was worried that A Court of Thorns and Roses wouldn't feel original, but it was the complete opposite. Maas has written an incredibly unique story that is grounded in the fairytale we all know and love, but is also independent and utter creative genius (Maas is definitely honing and owning her writing skills!). Yes, there is a curse, and magic, and a love story. But there is also dark magic, and steamy romance (and I do mean steamy!), and blood and gore, and court drama -- basically, all of my favorite things wrapped up in one neat, rose-colored bow.  There were some twists on the original story of Beauty and the Beast that I really enjoyed. For example, in the original story, the residents/servants of the Beast's home are cursed and transformed into household items. However in ACOTAR, rather than being transformed into household items, Maas' cursed characters must wear masquerade masks, and have done so for 50 years since the curse was placed on the night of a masquerade party. I also appreciated that, though Tamlin was a beast, that quality did not factor into the curse that was placed on him. Rather, as a Fae, he has the power of shape-shifting, and takes the form of a beast (usually when fighting). So, throughout most of the book, Tamlin is portrayed as a glorious, chiseled, man of steel. Some readers believe that the fact that Tamlin is gorgeous retracts from the Beauty and the "Beast" story line. However, no one writes hot male love interests like Sarah J. Maas, so I am not complaining about Tamlin at all.  Overall, I found that I loved the fairytale background of this story more than anything. I enjoyed drawing comparisons between Maas' story and characters, and the story I grew up with. Maas' world is so intriguing, engrossing you from the very beginning and never letting you go.  ★ GENRE While we know that ACOTAR is a fairytale retelling, that is not to say that it is a children's book. I went into this book thinking that it was Young Adult. However, there is a particular scene that takes place after the Great Rite on Fire Night (such a good scene, by the way -- just wait for it) that made me take a step back and think "Whoa! This is way too sexy and erotic for Young Adult literature."  Looking back at Goodreads, I found that the book was listed as Young Adult and New Adult. But, I would personally classify this book as New Adult. Having read many New Adult novels, I found that the sex rating for ACOTAR resonates with that of a New Adult novel. I think that there is a lot of confusion about the genre of this book because we all know Sarah J. Maas as a Young Adult author. I personally have no problem with this genre. However, for parents who are giving this book to their young children, or for those readers who don't enjoy sex scenes in their books -- you have been warned.  I love the New Adult genre, and discovering that ACOTAR fell into that genre made me love it even more. I appreciate the more mature content, and that the characters are closer to my age (Feyre is 19). And, hey, I appreciate the sexy times, too. (There is no shame in my game... Because, who am I kidding? I have no game.) I had also never read a New Adult Fantasy before, so I was glad to be exploring new territory.  I'm absolutely impressed with Maas as a writer. She is not afraid to be different, to venture out to new places. I love that she is entering this new genre, and look forward to seeing what else she has up her sleeve for the future.  ★ FEYRE, THE PROTAGONIST When I started reading ACOTAR, I was sure Maas was going to give us another Celaena Sardothien: a badass girl who is nearly invincible, yet lovable and cool. However, Feye (pronounced Fay-ruh) is so different from other fantasy protagonists I have read, because she is so unapologetically human. She is normal, and she is flawed, and I found that I could easily relate to her character. Feyre is unlike the female protagonists we are accustomed to. She is no fighter, not outstandingly gorgeous, and she is also illiterate (a shortcoming that embarrasses her to not end).  In the beginning, Feyre is not very likable. She is cold, harsh, stubborn, and hard-headed. But, readers begin to see how her situation of poverty has shaped her to be that way. Once at the Spring Court, where she is no longer burdened with the responsibility of taking care of her father and two sisters (all of whom are ungrateful of her efforts to keep them alive), the ice in her heart begins to melt as she lives in comfort and takes up her passion for painting. Readers witness her character develop as she begins to rediscover happiness and life's simple pleasures. Feyre easily becomes a character you can't help but root for and love.  ★ TAMLIN & AN IMPENDING LOVE TRIANGLE Since we have discussed Feyre, I believe that it is only appropriate to take a glance at her love interest: Tamlin.  Tamlin is a bae Fae warrior, with magical abilities. He is also gorgeous, kind-hearted, and strong. And, he places Feyre's happiness and well-being above all else. But, he is not perfect. He is flawed, haunted by his family's past, by his own mistakes, and the lives he has taken. But, through all of that, he still strives to do and be good.  However, I admit that while I love Tamlin, I am worried that Maas has a love triangle in the works for Book 2 of ACOTAR.  Because Rhysand.  Rhys, a sexy, dangerous Fae, is a force of nature who seeks to dig his claws (or rather, talons) into Feyre. And, I can't say that I hate him. I actually like his character, although we witness him do some terrible things (even to Feyre). He seems edgy, fun, and is incredibly witty. (Maas does this thing where she makes you fall in love with all of her characters, even the morally ambiguous ones.) While Tamlin is all gorgeous and good, Rhys has that hot-but-tragic thing going for him.  I am already struggling with the love square Maas has going on in the Throne of Glass series (between Celaena and her three love interests -- Chaol, Dorian, and Rowan). I don't think that I will be able to handle the emotional roller coaster of another of her love triangles. But, I think that as long as no one else is introduced, as long as this does not move into the quadrilateral stage, everything will be fine.  ★ SUPPORTING CHARACTERS While Maas' main characters are at the center of attention, her supporting characters keep this book afloat. With less focus and fewer appearances, Maas' supporting characters still manage to steal our hearts and the show.  First, there is Lucien, the red-haired, one-eyed Fae who is Tamlin's best friend. He is initially rude to Feyre, but eventually warms up to her. They easily develop a sort of big-brother-little-sister relationship. I would consider Lucien to be the story's comic relief. He is humorous and sarcastic and I adore his character.  There is also Amarantha, the story's evil villainess. She is a Fae ruler who has a particular hatred for humans, which is not good for Feyre. She is cold, calculating, and cruel. But she has a backstory (all the best villains have backstories). And, I don't want to spoil you all, so I will just say that, when you learn her backstory, you realize why Amarantha is so harsh and unforgiving. Although, while I can sympathize with her on some level, I find her evil ways to be too much at times. However, I still find her to be an interesting, well-written character.  And of course, there is Rhysand, whom I mentioned earlier. He is incredibly important to the story of Book 1, and will have an even larger presence in Book 2. I cannot wait to learn more about his character, because he is so enigmatic and intriguing and I just know that I am going to love him.  HONORABLE MENTIONS Maas' Writing I believe that ACOTAR is Maas' at her best. As I stated earlier, we are definitely seeing Maas hone and perfect her skill -- each book she releases is always better than the last. What I liked most about Maas' writing in ACOTAR was her use of first person. Throne of Glass is written in third person, and with changing character perspectives. I find that I can tend to get bored with certain characters. But, with ACOTAR, told from Feyre's perspective, I felt engaged throughout the entire book.  Faerie World I literally want to live in Prythian, in the world of the Fae that exists beyond The Wall (just without all of the drama). Maas depicts the Spring Court so beautifully and vividly. It seems like a literal heaven on earth.  Other than the beauty of the Fae world, there are the parties and festivities. I mentioned Fire Night and the Great Rite earlier, two very interesting festivities held in the Fae world. And then there are parties and gatherings celebrating the seasons, such as Summer Solstice and Midsummer. It is all so fantastical and fun, readers are just dying to step into the pages.  ***  There is not much else I can say about A Court of Thorns and Roses. I LOVED this book! I have no idea how I am going to wait an entire year for the sequel. It's going to be excruciating, but I am sure that it is going to worth it. Because Sarah J. Maas is a fabulous queen of writing, and every word she writes turns to gold.
The Beauty, the Beast and the Deranged At the beginning I thought this would be a simple beauty and the beast reconstructed tale in fairy land. Heck for while I even thought we would have our very own Gaston trying to storm the castle and free our female lead. Thankfully Maas took us further away from the original story, and delivered a flawed but strong minded female lead. Feyra taken away to fairyland for killing a fairy in the woods, is given a chance to pursue her true passions and find love. However, as she’s learned before nothing in the human lands or fairy realm is free. As we read further into the story we realize Feyra and Tamlin our Spring Fairy Lord can never have complete happiness when under a shadow of a curse. Throughout the course of the story we find out that various courts throughout fairy land have been enslaved. Tricked to be under the control of the vengeful fairy Amarantha. While Amarantha has her reasons for attaining power, nothing justifies her continued cruelty towards the fae. May contain spoilers, key moments I hated/loved ahead:  Nesta: I was so angry at the hurtful words that she said to our heroine at the beginning. Why criticize your younger sister that is literally putting food on your table? All that anger and hate, why could she not have shown some compassion and taught Feyra to read. Still their reunion was a tearjerker for me, to learn that she was the only one to have looked for Feyra. I’m glad that all the effort our heroine took to protect her family was not completely in vain. The father though..unforgivable.  Tamlin: He has this underlying superiority complex, and it really bothered me how he criticized her as being uncultured but never truly did anything about it. Maybe he also needed to heal from the curse and having to sacrifice his soldiers, but take Rhysand as a contrast. When Rhysand found out Feyra couldn’t read, he said he would have forced her to learn in the first few months. This is where it clicked for me, Tamlin may give her what she wants but not what she truly needs. Does he really care about her or is Feyra his distraction and prize. I thought Lucian would have been a better partner for Feyra.  Rhysand: I was left with one question, is he her true mate? The shocked reaction at the end to the book was too intriguing. I must say I went back and forth with this character. I knew he wasn’t all bad, after saving her during spring fest, and saying he doesn’t remember her face (as not to have the main lead tortured). Yet, I really found it cringeworthy on having our main lead drugged and forced to make a spectacle of herself. This was cruel and maybe he selected the better option considering the circumstances, but it was dehumanizing. He will need to do some serious groveling to get back on good graces.  Lucian: Now our one eyed pirate needs a spin-off, while he takes down the Autumn court. I found him utterly charming and hoping he was the true Fae High-Lord of the spring court. He came across genuine, with his dislike for the human guest and grudging acceptance. When it comes to characters like Lucian I’m always afraid the author will kill them off, as to not be a threat to a male lead. I’m was glad he was still standing by the end of the book.  Feyra: To have learned to hunt just to feed your ungrateful family, now this is a strong female lead. Feyra is loyal and needing love and care. It broke my heart for her to still think of a family that did not respect or care for her properly. The worse was when she lashed out due to her embarrassment of being illiterate. She is more that a few letters on a page. Feyra brought color, life, loyalty, strength, and love wherever she went. I wanted her to be happy, instead she choose to enslave herself in the attempt to free Tamlin. She loved him but Rhysand and Lucian demonstrated better care. I just think Feyra confuses loyalty and gratefulness for love. I’m not sure Tamlin deserved her.
A New World to Explore Sarah J. Maas has created a unique and welcoming world. The way that she had described it through the main character’s eyes had me feel like I was actually there seeing it for myself. The difference between the human world and the fae world is rather drastic than I had expected. But as I read further, I found my answers.  Sarah has a unique way that she writes each of her characters as well. I felt that as the book went along, the more Feyre had become familiar with herself. Tamilin had always held himself responsible and at the end we see something different. With each character that she has created in this world, I feel that we had only begun to know them in this first book.  I have become a new fan of Sarah J. Maas. I can not wait to continue my journey in the ACOTAR series. I also can not wait to read A Throne of Glass as well by her. She has one amazing mind and I adore her for it.
A Captivating Fantasy Journey "A Court of Thorns and Roses" has firmly secured its place as my all-time favorite series, second only to "Throne of Glass." Maas' writing is simply exquisite, drawing readers into a world brimming with magic, romance, and intrigue.  Perfect for those new to fantasy reads, this series seamlessly weaves together elements of fairy tales, romance, and epic adventure. From the moment I picked up the first book, I was completely captivated, unable to put it down until I reached the very last page.  Maas' storytelling prowess shines through with vivid world-building and well-developed characters that leap off the page. The journey of Feyre, the protagonist, is both thrilling and emotionally resonant, keeping readers eagerly turning pages to discover what happens next.  If you're seeking a beautifully written and immersive fantasy series, look no further than "A Court of Thorns and Roses." Prepare to be swept away into a world you won't want to leave!
Doesn’t deserve the hate Okay so... I might lost some of my favorite critics over this because I know a lot of you weren’t a fan of this book. And I have some pretty intense feelings about some of the biggest criticisms lmao. I will talk about some flaws with the book still, as no book is perfect. But for the most part I really loved it. There will be rants. I have ALOT to say. Sooo here we go before I lose my nerve lmao.  My main petty annoyance: the fact that tamlin uses his paws the same way a human uses hands even when he’s in beast form lol. There I said it. Now let’s move on to hopefully not my most controversial review ever. I feel like I’m supposed to hate MAAS and her writing. But I don’t. I really love what she did here.  Characters: Feyre: I really don’t get the hate. Maybe she gets worse later. Maybe. But people hate her in this book too and I don’t get why. She was meh to me. I admired her in some ways and hated her in others. I loved her heart, and how often she let it guide her even if it resulted in her ignoring everything anyone told her. Which yes- did annoy me sometimes. But it wasn’t that bad.  now we get to the fun part.  Tamlin and rhyes (similar thoughts on both)- Oh my god. The reasons you guys hate this dude are absurd in this book. Every single thing I was told to look out for and that would start me into hating him was ridiculous. I genuinely believe you guys just don’t ship him and feyre so that makes him immediately sooo horrible. Same for the rhyes haters.  You guys have to stop inserting in a fantasy setting and acting like any of the decisions made are simple. Both of them are great in their own way- and both had feyres interest in mind in my opinion. The questionable things they do, because yes there are some...Are either for show to SAVE feyre and everyone else. It’s all so obviously calculated and here you guys are trying to critique it like they’re events that happened over tea in a totally normal world with nothing intense or life threatening going on around them. Just why.  I’m team Rhys just because I like him a little more- and I love the way he thinks and speaks. But I also love tamlin and am still rooting for him to be happy.  I think they’re both fleshed out brilliantly and have many layers that I can’t wait to uncover. They both have scars and they BOTH have really unfortunate situations that are eating away at them that make them who they are. I’m just saying... think about the alternative that could happen if they didn’t make some of their questionable choices.  They wouldn’t have done half the stuff they did for this one human... if they didn’t truly care.  Villain-  Well she’s like not very nice lol so of course I don’t like her and I’m not rooting for her but...idk I put her here because I did kind of have a problem with how stupid she seemed to be for someone who was supposed to be cunning. She let certain people get away with way too much, and didn’t seem to notice or care. It was strange because then she would just randomly turn into a brutal witch out of nowhere but then let certain things happen other times. I’m sure some of it was her calculating but... still. It seemed a little weak.  She’s bitter, brutal and interesting. The ring, will probably haunt my nightmares. She just wasn’t as developed.  Lucien-  I don’t want him with feyre but I just wanted to say... despite me liking tam and rhyes... Lucien will forever be my babe. I love him the most. He’s so complex and he’s been through so much.  He’s witty, intelligent, and overall just cares about people even when he pretends he doesn’t. I want nothing but greatness for him lol. His story is heart breaking as well.  The rest- this story is filled with intriguing, misunderstood, and terrifying creatures. No complaints there.  Her family- feyres family is on my poop list. But I don’t hate nesta even now as some of you seem to. Maybe I’m a mean bitter person... Idk.  The plot-  Like every plot it has both weak and strong points. I loved seeing the world unfold, and getting to see a good chunk of it before the action started.  I did think the twist with the masks and how convenient all of the events were was well... convenient....while it did lead to the most exciting parts, I felt like the point of it was kinda glossed over and the explanation for why things were how they are wasn’t too important to the story.  But it came over decently- and the ending wasn’t terrible. So I’m happy.  I still got the magical yet unsettling experience I wanted. And I can’t wait to see more of this world.  I really feel like it’s just the cool thing to hate maas and these books now. But I don’t see them as problematic as a lot of people seem to. I had an incredibly enjoyable time reading them, and I saw the reasons behind the words .  Think what you want about me because of that lol. I will not defend myself for not seeing the issues other people see. I will be continuing.
Beautiful Cover Having heard much raving about this series, I was poking around on Amazon when I saw this collector's edition. It is indeed gorgeous, although I do wish it had a ribbon attached to the book to use for a bookmark. The gold image that flows from the front cover to the back and the texture of the cover are far more appealing than the plain, paper, black covers that are on most hardbacks today, and that alone justifies its presence on the shelf. It wasn't the first time I had bought a book for the cover.  Aside from hearing reviews from fans, I also saw a reference to the book when reading about Patricia A McKillip's _Winter Rose_, which I had recently read, and its connection to the ballad of Tam Lin. This same fairy tale apparently had influence on Holly Black's _Tithe_, also. Although the High Lord in Maas's tale is named Tamlin, the story is obviously a retelling of "Beauty and the Beast." The story also has borrowed pages from the fairy tale "East of the Sun, West of the Moon," wherein the main character is taken away from her family by the bear, and the bear prince makes her impoverished family rich. Whereas neither "Beauty and the Beast" nor "East of the Sun, West of the Moon" have fairy characters, aside from a witch or enchantress here and there, in the story Tam Lin, he is identified as an elf. In Maas's retelling, which court is cursed to wear masks, Tamlin's friend's mask is clearly stated as a fox, whereas Tamlin's mask is only vaguely described, and he is often referred to as a "beast." The lack of description was a tad infuriating.  While set in a fairy tale period of time past, the main character clearly has "modern" ideas. She has no mother and a weak father figure and, furthermore, was tasked by her dying mother to take care of her sisters, despite the fact that she is the youngest. The family has only recently fallen into poverty, and the main character's upbringing has been neglected. She learns to hunt to feed the family, and, unlike the book-loving Belle of the Disney fairy tale, no one bothers to teach her how to read, although she is presented with a library, at which point, if you were ever in doubt as to which fairy tale was being emulated, you now know for sure. According to the Internet, the character's name "Feyre" means "Fair, Beautiful," like the name "Belle." DYSWSDT? I myself am not a fan of retellings, and even less of "modern" retellings, although I do appreciate influences and notes here and there.  As a novel, the story has a single plot line. I have always felt that a story can be a single plot line told in a linear fashion, but a novel requires a bit more substance. Although it was interesting enough for me to finish, I am not sure that I feel compelled to read the rest of the series, particularly if there is no matching collector's edition. For me, the most interesting parts were the three tasks at the end, and I had already guessed the answer to the riddle. I found Feyre's modernity and rebellion to be tiresome and in direct contrast to what readers who like fairy tales would desire, and I found her difficult to like, which is basically how I feel about most "strong female characters." I do not understand how a person who is stubborn and illogical is strong. Stubborn, I can get. Stubborn and dumb at the same time? No.  ACOTAR has a Lexile score of 880, which puts it at the lower end of a 4th grade reading level (700-1160). You won't learn any new big words, and the prose is clearly more commercial than literary and follows the "hero's journey" template little to no deviation (i.e., no big surprises). It is known near the beginning of the book that the main character is no virgin, and there are racy scenes past the middle of the book, as well as being intoxicated and hints of something like a lap dance while being scantily clad in later chapters. The descriptions of the fairy land (not merely a realm) were not as detailed as those in Julie Kagawa's _The Iron Fey_ series and were mundane and too similar to the lands of the mortals. The writing was a bit awkward at several points where one character's actions were in the same paragraph with another character's dialogue, so there was a bit of a whiplash effect for the reader, and the book could have used a good editor to clean up those areas. So, was it bad? Obviously not that bad, since I finished it. Will I read more of her stories? I can't say for sure, but probably not unless they issue an attractive collector's edition worthy of the bookshelf. It satisfied my curiosity, but for Fey-related books, I recommend Jim Butcher's Dresden Series and Julie Kagawa's Iron Fey Series. Both have mind-blowing descriptions and intricacies. I'm always interested to read other authors and series that would do a better job on this topic just to see if it's possible. So, I gave it three stars for being "okay" plus one for a really nice cover.
CAN NOT PUT IT DOWN! I am not a avid reader, or even a reader at all, but the girls in my office started reading this & talking about it, so I jumped on the band wagon so I wouldn't be left out. :) I was amazed about how much I LOVED this series, I wanted it to just keep on going! I love all the characters, it's beautiful to read. I could not put it down till I was done with the series and I wanted more. I was soooo invested in all the characters. I really hope the author does some spin off books with the sisters, and some more w/ Feyre. LOVED LOVED LOVED....A MUST READ SERIES. I hope it's made into a TV series....
ACOTAR is nothing more than erotica So here I sit, having gone through the OMG ACOTAR SERIES IS AMAZING phase, and out the other end, I can sit back and think "What the actual hell?"  I'm a HUGE Maas fan, so when I found out she was writing another series, I had to have it. For the first time in a long time, my library actually got the book within a month of its release, so I checked out ACOTAR and read it in a single day. I loved it.  Books two came out, and while I was super disappointed in the pointless sex thrown in every so often and whole chapters dedicated to this nonsense, I continued reading because the story was compelling enough. And then ACOWAR emerged, and everything changed.  This was a series I read numerous times before ACOWAR came out, and I saw things that genuinely bothered me, but I ignored them (I don't even know why) until I just couldn't stand it anymore.  ACOTAR is nothing more than erotica. I feel like the series as a whole started out with plans of being some sort of "story" porn that has a kick-ass plot with "hot" scenes thrown in for whatever reason, and then it got to ACOWAR and decided it wanted to be The Bachelor or a soap opera instead.  The relationship between Tamlin and Feyre GREATLY disturbs me. She's taking care of her family and he swoops in after she accidentally kills a fae (who was disguised as a wolf int he woods where hunters hunt...) and takes her away, claiming she's going to be in trouble and damned and blah blah. No, she's pampered and given servants and pretty clothes and good food. Tamlin dresses her up like a doll and makes snide remarks when she falls short of his goals (fae goals, mind you).  Feyre is a HUMAN. Tamlin is fae. He acts like her humanity is a curse or something to hold against her, and he constantly makes remarks about how she's too fragile, too uneducated, too plain, etc. Instead of "fixing" these issues, Tamlin does nothing other than tell her what to do and not do.  He sexually assaults her after Calanmai, and in the book Feyre shows how much she does not want his advances, and he shoves her against the wall and BITES her, then tells her not to ever go against him again. How is this OK? If my husband ever did this to me, I'd kick him in the crotch and leave. This is not OK. This is not a relationship. This is abuse, which is why it disgusts me that people go on and on about Tamlin.  The fact that Feyre and Tamlin have sex at a later time after he did this makes it worse. why, Feyre, are you going to throw yourself at a man who A) Doesn't care about you based off his degrading comments and B) threatens you. Not only that, he basically blames her for a near-rape experience when he literally did nothing to look out for her and/or stop the guys who were going to attack her?  That being said, I have a lot of issues with Feyre. She gets off too easy on everything, and it's like her brain is only wired to care if the dude is hot. You take care of your family, but then you walk into Tamlin's embrace after the things he has said and done. I understand she has been abused by this, but at the same time, she could have said no. Death is a lot better than basically being a sex slave or punching bag to an immortal person determined to imprison you until you die.  She's never punished for killing a fae. Lucien and Tamlin tell her about magical creatures that could give her what she wants, and the next day she walks out and finds them...the elusive creatures...that are hard for fae to find?  Lucien is about the only well developed character, and he's too sexualized sometimes for me to take me seriously. If you keep pointing out the abs, tanned skin, or whatever on the dude, you're turning them into a slab of meat. All of the males, and truthfully the females as well, in ACOTAR are "perfect" in the idea of what today's society thinks is beauty, sexy, and amazing at everything. This is sexist on every account. Your characters become nothing more than fantasies--which is why I say this is nothing more than porn/erotica.  Sure, you can get some great messages out of this series, but is it worth all of the dung in the way? Specifically with the later books, there's too much sex at some points for it to even be OK. Please, go try to have sex that many times or for days on end and tell me how that is. if you can do that, I'm sorry, but you're either a whore or you're just kinda crazy, because that's too much.  Why I ever read this book and like it, I truthfully don't know, but I'm done with this series. I'm done with this fandom, and I'm fed up with seeing people "swoon" or make comments or even draw/like at that nude art about LITERARY CHARACTERS. Guys, seriously? This is not a book for young girls, but when I went to the first (and last) Maas event, most of the audience there were between the ages of 14-20 (predominately 15-17 years of age) and SCREAMED when Maas was mentioning SEX SCENES. I'm not going to continue to support a series that is encouraging young teens and young women to have unrealistic ideas of men as well as sexual fantasies, especially the married women who I've seen act this same way. if I were your husband, I wouldn't be able to deal with that. I wouldn't want those books in my house.  About the only good thing I have to say for ACOTAR was that there actually was a plot in this book, and it was good, if insanely slow to get rolling, and the amount of sex was fairly minimal.
ஐBeauty and the Beast meets Faerie ஐ ஐBeauty and the Beast meets Faerie ஐ – I should ADORE this but overall it was just okay. There are things I totally loved about this story, but they are marred by the things that didn’t quite work out for me and so what I’m left with is feeling in the middle where I didn’t love it but I didn’t hate it either.  I’m a huge fan of beauty and the beast retellings or most fairytales actually, but Belle is my absolute favorite heroine because she is smart, reads and doesn’t fall head over heels for the first pretty face that happens along. She and I could totally be BFFs. Then there is the Fae. Now I’m not a big expert on faerie stories or anything like that, but I find the Fae to be totally interesting creatures and usually like it when they are incorporated into stories. Instead if this being a magical mashup that made the story soar to new heights of awesome I found myself seeing some serious sour notes that disjointed the story and made it feel clunky.  The stuff I totally LOVED –  ✧ - Tamlin and his Faerie world - There are some really interesting descriptions of the time spent at the his manor. The lake full of starlight, the manor, the art and his court cursed to all be in masks. Tamlin is completely likable right from the near beginning.  ✧Lucien – He is a spunky guy full of vim and vinegar that Fayre has a lot of fun verbally sparring with and getting into general trouble. He is also a great friend to Tamlin and I love the brotherly bound between them. While Lucien has an easy way with people he is working hard to help his friend find the right way to woo Fayre.  ✧ The Love Story – I enjoyed the time Tamlin and Feyre were getting to know each other and the tentative flirting the best. I really wish there was maybe just a little more time spent on it as it was the basis for the last 40% of the book.  “My father once told me that I should let my sisters imagine a better life—a better world. And I told him that there was no such thing.” I ran my thumb over his mouth, marveling, and shook my head. “I never understood—because I couldn’t … couldn’t believe that it was even possible.” I swallowed, lowering my hand. “Until now.”  ✧ The ‘Tasks’ – I like the idea behind completing some challenges to prove your worth and love. I liked even more that it was Feyre The Girl who had to do this instead of prince charming. It was a nice twist to a normal Fairytale.  ✧ - The Curse – while not particularly a fan of the fact the curse made Tamlin and his court all have to wear masks (since I really thought it would have been better if they all had to remain in animal form) I did like the final symmetry and cruelty of the curse. It was different and I totally respect that, it was a truly Fae curse in the level of cruelty behind it.  ✧ Rhysand – was my FAVORITE CHARACTER and I’ll totally admit I’m still not sure what exactly I think of him. I will say this though, he is the most interesting character in the book whether he is playing on the side of good or evil….well you will have to make your own decision on that. But I seriously hoping the next book is about him.  As this is the start of a new series I will give it some leeway at getting started. There are some really fun parts to the story and even though it is a bit clunky at times I still got to a point when they are ‘Under the Mountain’ that I needed to get through the story to see how it all worked out and this is where the story mostly stayed on the like side of the line.  The stuff that missed the mark:  ✦ - When writing about a well-established lore I think there are some things that perhaps the reader will ‘accept’ or ‘not accept’ based on how important or ingrained it is OR the story the author puts with the lore change. Based on my various readings there are a few things about fantasy creatures that are ingrained into me. I KNOW that  ➜ Vampires – Drink blood, Can’t be in the sun and die by a wooden stake through the heart ➜ Werewolves – Silver bullets, Shifting (of some kind), Full Moon ➜ Fae – Immortal Tricksters, CAN’T LIE ➜ Zombie – Human dead, eat flesh  I’m not going to say the Maas changed the Fae lore so much that she *Stephanie Meyer’d* it but she pretty much made a change to the Fae lore equivalent to making vampires sparkle in the sunlight. It isn’t quite a deal breaker for me, but I’m not a fan of that particular lore twist either.  ✦ It pains me to say this but Feyre and I didn’t get along until about 75% of the way through the book. She does so many stupid things that honestly I went from really liking her in the very beginning of the story to being completely annoyed with her.  She began strong and independent with a family to support and I really liked that she wasn’t your typical virgin heroine. She hunted for her family and was the main supporter. Not conventionally educated she still came across as bright and strong.  After ending up in Tamlin’s court and promising to stay the first thing Feyre tries to do is escape, when Tamlin assures her that he has seen to her family’s comfort she pouts and tries to find a way to escape again. She puts herself in dangerous situations without much thought in these attempts and really it was slightly tiresome.  “Weren’t you warned to keep your wits about you?” Tamlin snapped. “That your human senses would betray you?” He stepped beyond me and let out a snarl so vicious that whatever the thing was by the gates shimmered with light and darted out as fast as lightning streaking through the dark. “Fool,” he said to me, turning. “If you’re ever going to run away, at least do it in the daytime.”  I liked her a little more after she calmed down and decided to stay but the damage was done and she never made much headway with me again until toward the very end of the book when she became much more likable.  ✦The Curse –( Yes I know that it is up in the like part as well, you get +5 points because you noticed) - The story made it seem like it was so horrible to be cursed to wear the masks but honestly I thought it made Tamlin hotter instead of diminished. Masks are sexy I don’t care who you are just think about it Zorro, Phantom of the Opera, a slew of superheroes AND….The Dread Pirate Roberts  Tamlin had a beast form so I thought it would have worked possibly better if she had to fall in love with only his personality. Just an opinion.  ✦The ‘Rite’ – There is a moment in the book where there is a spring festival. I’m not a prude I swear but it really bothered me how that played out. The whole scene made me feel a little strange and I really wasn’t sure what to do with my feelings about it. Maybe if I knew some other Fae stories and knew that was what ‘The Rite’ of spring was I wouldn’t have minded but I was not prepared. On a good note I was happy that it didn’t have any negative residual affects between Feyre and Tamlin.  Overall Thoughts:  Sometimes at the beginning of a new series you can’t see the big picture and that is why the first book of it might fall a little flat for you. I will say that when I read Throne of Glass it was just an okay book for me as well but then I loved both Crown of Midnight and Heir of Fire. I’m hoping that is also the case with this series.  Based on how the book ended I have some really high hopes for the next book of this series. If you like fairytale retellings or Faerie stories then I say still give this one a go. If anyone can deliver a stronger second book to a series it is Maas so I’m not concerned and think she could be off to a solid start.  Begs Sarah J. Maas to have the next book be about Rhysand and dare I hope for it..….Nesta
Easy to read While I generally enjoyed the story and kept reading on and on, it has certain deficiencies that I cannot disregard. 1) I enjoyed the basic storyline - human girl taken to the fairy world, having to surpass trials to save her love, using elements from mythology, also great references that are not so obvious to everyone. 2) The writing was not very well done. It fell into the fallacy of telling instead of showing. There are a lot of looming questions in the first part of the book, and instead of making a puzzle for the reader, we get a full chapter where a side character just simply explains everything. The story itself was interesting, but this set up robbed me from exploring this myself. I got half a book of a main character who annoyingly didn't try to ask any questions, and then this one chapter pouring all the answers. Another issue was that I, as a reader, did not fall in love with Tamlin. There was simply no chance for that. His true personality is not shown in the book. There are chapters where he just talks with Lucien, and says some strange things to Feyre, and then boom, they are bathing together in the river, and we are supposed to feel in love. I didn't. I didn't get anything that made me fall in love with Tamlin. There are no conversations with him that would show his personality. 3) Feyre, the main character was annoying. She just blindly accepted anything that came in front of her. I only read the first book so far, so this maybe important to her character arc. But still, someone who had to fight for the life of her family, she just went with everything that happened to her. Has to go to fairy land? OK. Has to go home? OK. Older sister says to go back? OK. Evil queen says three trials? OK. Night lord makes an escort of her and humiliates her? OK. Does she seriously not have one drop of self consciousness to stand up for herself?
stick with it The beginning was slow and boring. But because I heard so many good things about the book, I stuck it out. I read one chapter a day, until I got to 60% of the book and I couldn’t put it down afterwards.  I took one star away because I felt the author was trying to make the book longer, which was why it felt boring, but when I think back on it, it was necessary to get to the good parts. Another reason I took one point away was because at times it felt a bit repetitive.  All in all, it was a good read and I look forward to book two and more of Tamlin and hopefully understanding Rhysand and that questioning look he gave Feyre.
A Captivating Read I have heard a lot of this series and was skeptical to read it because I am not a fan of fantasy books. I decided to give it a shot figuring if I didn't like it then so be it and I stick with the genre that normally read. Well after reading A Court of Thorns and Roses, I am a fan of fantasy books. Sarah J Maas has the ability to pull a reader into the story and keep them engaged in the storyline. The characters are likable with the exception of a few of them and the only reason the reader wouldn't like them is because of their role they play in the book. If this first book of the series is any indication of how the rest of the series is, I cannot wait. If you don't like fantasy books, don't let that stop you. Give it a try, you won't be disappointed.
My favorite series, will recommend. Wish I could do a 4.5 *spoilers* Such a great book for the first one of the series! Loved the details felt like I actually can picture everything that happened. The plot reminds me of beauty and the beast. Loved the friendship that build up with Feyre and Lucien. Really liked Tamlin, No obsessed but it did get spoiled to me who Feyre ends up with. This book made me excited to read the other books in the series. The spice was a good warm up. Loved the kitchen part after the fire night. I wasn’t in love how their first kiss was but I feel like it was kind of the point. The ending with under the mountain was dark and twisted but so good. I wasn’t able to put the book down once she “ had to leave”. If I could give this a 4.5 I would!
Like Beauty and the Beast - but not It’s tempting to say that A Court of Thorns and Roses is a thinly disguised retelling of Beauty and the Beast. But the truth is that though there are a few similarities near the beginning, the disguising is not thin at all. In fact, there are so many twists in this tale that, if I hadn’t been reading a lot of fairy tale adaptations lately, the comparison would never have occurred to me.  So, naturally, there are many differences between this story and the traditional Beauty and the Beast story. For one thing, although he first appears in scary beast form when he comes to claim Feyre in revenge for his dead friend, Tamlin, the High Lord of the Spring Court, is a High Fae, and only appears as a beast when he wants to.  The curse he suffers from is something entirely different.  Prythian, the Fae land where they live, is divided into seven kingdoms, each ruled by a High Lord (or Lady), and much of what goes on that Feyre doesn’t understand is related to their politics and their past history. The land is full of monsters much uglier and more dangerous than even Tamlin in his beast form. But just as with humans, these Fae suffer the most at the hands of other Fae. And they do a lot of suffering before they are finally set free.
A sexy fairy tale with a sweeping, epic scope Read more: http://www.sarcasmandlemons.com/2015/06/review-court-of-thorns-and-roses-by.html  in short  It seemed fitting to post my review of ACOTAR during Something Strange and Deadly week, given that Sarah and Sue are uber-besties. I will preface by saying: I have a huge blind spot when it comes to Sarah Maas. There were bits of this book that might have bugged me more if it had been another author. That said, ACOTAR stands solidly on its own. It's older than Throne of Glass, more mature, but without traipsing into drug store romance territory. The whole atmosphere is ridiculous with magic and fairy gorgeousness. You enter the world and immediately are steeped in its legends. You meet Feyre, a sharp-tongued badass who taught herself archery to feed her family. She's a firebrand and I love her. One wrong move has her whisked away to faerie-land to live with Tamlin, sizzlingly handsome faerie Lord and certified mental eye-candy. The relationship between them heats up slowly and burns bright. But there's a darkness as well, a plot that threatens both of their worlds. I wish that the evil part of the plot had been more prominent and taken up more space; I also found the ending turn a little eye-rolly. However, I still gobbled it up. ACOTAR transported me as a good fantasy should, and left me impatient for more.  in depth  in this loose beauty and the beast retelling, Meet Feyre. Once a gentlewoman until her family's fortune was lost, she now lives with her father and two sisters in a quaint cottage. She's the definition of fierce. With her father a self-made invalid, her proud and idle sister Nesta, and her naive and lazy sister Elain, she's the family's sole hope. She's scrabbled her way from starvation to survival, teaching herself to use a bow, to trade, to adapt. So she's smart enough to recognize a fae when she sees one, and to kill it. In a twist on the original tale, it's Feyre whose crime has brought doom, and she is given a choice: death, or life in the faerie realm, away from all she's ever known. Obviously, she chooses the non-dead version. She's brought to a magical castle where the Beast's curse is reimagined: masks that can never be removed, and a sickness in his magic.  there are hearts at stake, It's a little less obvious why Tamlin might need a girl than the Beast, but stick with it. You'll be rewarded with a sweet, slow-moving romance. I'll admit: I found Tamlin a little boring. He's broody, tortured, and has some magical rage issues that beg a nuanced dialogue around healthy relationships. I preferred Lucien, who's witty and petulant. But in the end, I came to appreciate Tamlin's kind and gentle nature. His romance with Feyre is built on a rocky beginning; she hates and fears him, and longs for escape. But of course, they come to know each other more deeply, to appreciate each other's quirks and passions. I'd have liked more conversations between them, but we do get plenty of steaminess. And I'll say it: I usually find sex scenes laughable, but Maas avoids ridiculous euphemisms and actually gives her steamy scenes some emotional power. In other news, I'm hoping that the Rhys thing doesn't become a triangle thing, because unbalanced power dynamics aren't sexy.  but also the fate of a magical world. Alas, the lovers cannot be in peace, for there is a curse upon the Courts of the faerie land. Magic is becoming weaker and more unpredictable. Dangerous creatures lurk beyond their borders, creatures that feed on fear and soul. It soon becomes clear that the land is being corrupted from within--and its collapse could mean devastation for mankind. Feyre isn't complacent. She's reckless, for sure, but she's determined to find out what Tamlin can't tell her. Along the way she meets Rhys, a seductively wicked fae lord who may be her aid--for a price. Her curiosity leads her into a twisted game of intrigue, revenge, and evil. It's a thrilling mystery that kept me on my toes. It all leads up to a do-or-die moment, when Feyre must show her own power and become a savior.  there are a few instances of flimsiness. I did have my issues. ACOTAR didn't feel as tightly plotted as Throne of Glass. Some of the character motivations seemed flimsy. There were also few positive female characters--at least not any who stuck around for more than a few pages. I really wanted more of Nesta and Elain, particularly as Nesta was so dynamic across the plot. The villain, in particular, came off flat. Not to mention a couple moments of victim blaming that made me squirmy. But my main disappointment was with the trials Fayre faces to save Tamlin. They were so freaking cool, but they came towards the end of the book. As a result, they felt rushed and I felt skeptical that so much had been accomplished so soon. Fayre does have a habit of doing crazy things that should probably kill her. But maybe the most frown-worthy part involved a riddle. I guessed the answer within the first two lines, so the final reveal was more meh than gasp-worthy.  even so, sharp and atmospherically written, Despite these missteps, ACOTAR is a fabulous example of craft. Maas' writing has always had a fairy tale quality to it; that's used to advantage here, where everything she describes seems extra mystical and chilling. She's concocted a fabulous fantasy world. Her fae are old gods, held back from ruling humanity only by an ancient treaty. They live within seven courts--such as Dawn, Summer, and Night--that tensely coexist. For some reason, I really geeked out about the courts. It felt like a detail ripped from Grimm, but all Maas. This is also a dangerous world, and I would have liked to see more of it. There are nightmare creatures who lure you in with their seductive telepathy, goblins and ghouls, man-eating monsters who foretell the future. It's a fairy land with a deliciously dark edge.  it's the new adult we've all craved and deserved. I usually avoid new adult. I have it on good faith that they're all much the same. College girl meets boy. Hatred. Brooding. Sexy times. OMGLOVERAINBOWS. It's just stupid. But many adult books deal with marriage and kids, things I can't yet relate to. So it's about freaking time that new adult diversified, just as young adult has done. With ACOTAR, you get all the steam and romance, but you also get an exciting adventure story. I can only hope that Maas' success will pave the way for other NA with actual plots.  in a sentence  A Court of Thorns and Roses is a fairy tale with the volume turned up: more dangerous, more romantic, more seductive. It's yet another example of Maas' enthralling imagination.
Beauty and the beast I loved this book so much! I know I’m late to the ACOTAR trend, but I am glad I finally jumped on the bandwagon. It was definitely worth it❤️The world building of the mortal world and the Prythian was phenomenal. It was so detailed that it was easy to imagine what it looked like. I can’t wait to delve deeper into the land of the fae. The characters had depth and grew with the book. My favorite thing about Feyre is how relatable Sarah J. Maas made her to real life. She wasn’t a rich entitled girl going to a fae court, but a strong willed girl who had suffered. She is not the character that you would expect the book to be about when you first start it. I loved the development of Feyre’s relationship with each male character. I cannot wait to see how each character develops in the next books. The Spice is about 🌶️🌶️. It’s there, but not much. It’s the perfect amount for the first book in a series. It gives the climax time to build. ☺️
Surprising twists to the High Fae This is the first book in the series. It is well written and very descriptive, almost too much at times. The world building is slowly revealed through out the chapters. We join the story, but a supernatural war is already brewing. Feyre is an intelligent and clever young woman. Feyre is the youngest child, but is hunting for food for her entire family by herself. This is how the book starts. Next we meet her father and her sisters. It’s disappointing how ungrateful they are towards Feyre when she returns home with food but covered in blood. Feyre had additional luck during the hunt because she comes back with wolf pelts in addition to the venison. The wolf thought was special and his death will be how Feyre meets the High Fae Tamlin for the first time. Their odd journey of secrets and magic starts there. Read On!
Great read It may be premature to review this book, as I am only through the first 100 pages. I got it yesterday, and every time I need to put it down I'm annoyed. All I want to do is keep reading. Its been a long time since ive tried a book out and instantly felt drawn to the story. Im pretty confident the rest of the book will continue to be a page turner.
4.5 stars- AMAZING. spoilers ahead I haven’t sat down and read a non-mystery novel in a long time. I haven’t sought out or enjoyed a first person romantic isekai-adjacent stuff in FAR far longer. It had all the energy, love, and quality of the page turner Young Adult books that I used to devour, but with older characters that I could see myself in, even nearly 13 years out of high school, visceral language that was only seemingly allowed to be found in a few books in the latter half of the series I grew up with, and like….. of course the steamy scenes, but the way they were peppered in felt so real, so wonderful, like the smooth lighting of a candle. And the final act????? The final act????? I could see it happen in the inner theater of my brain. The worm. The tattoo. The pleading in their eyes. It made my stomach clench. My heart beat faster. And the end was very satisfying. Above all else, yes, there were moments of toying w plot armor, and there were times that I almost called deus ex machina, but Maas just danced with the ideas, flirted with the Mary Sue heroine of old. She showed, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that you CAN have a hero who is human, a hero who makes mistakes, a hero that will win in the end of this book without the reader even for a SECOND thinking she didn’t deserve it, didn’t earn it. And she didn’t do it alone. She didn’t have to. Her kindness that shows through the wall she’s had to put up, her ability to see to people’s hearts, her charming recklessness, how could they NOT have done a “power of love” moment and all come together to save her? I just. Bravo. The more I think about this story, I love it even more.  The only reason I removed the half star was I think the drugging thing was… a lot, especially since I suspect he is going to become a love interest in a triangle for Feyre. It felt sort of…. Defended? Which was??? Mmmmm??? But genuinely I do not want to pass full full judgment and change my opinion of the book as a whole beyond the ~ick~ and gut feeling of what Rhys’ look at the end meant.  -Sam
Recommend I really wasn’t sure if I would enjoy this book by reading the back of the cover. I put it off for so long even after buying it because I wasn’t sure if the hype was real. I finally decided to read it and let me tell you i was invested. The beginning and the middle was a little slow but it still left me wanting to read on and to know what happens with these characters. I just finished the book and i will be starting book two asap! Definitely recommend giving it a try!
Great story 19 year old Feyre is a strong, angry human who has to trade her freedom for her families safety. Her family though pretty much sucks through most of this book and leaves her to care for them. Tamlin has secrets and troubles that Freyre might be able to solve. Lucien is by far my favorite character for most of this book because he is sarcastic but there is definitely some good in him. I'd love to know more about his eye and history. This book really picks up towards the end though some of her trials are tough to read. Definitely worth a read.
Great read, and wonderful plot and character development... I love the twists and turns of the plot, the Cas of characters and how well they girly their roles, and a vast majority of the plot but, the key cog in the resolution of the plot, and how easy it was to solve, , and how it so heavily it influenced the events and and immediately resolved the main conflict, it was very symbolic, but not very cohesive with the rest of the action and how everything unfolded.  I will definitely continue reading the next story, but I enjoyed crescent city and the plot evolution there more, and the more modern twist of the setting (stumbled upon that series first which is probably backwards compared to most).  I would still read the book again, knowing the unsatisfying climax, but it just didn't seem like a fitting conflict and resolution with the rest of the complexity and nuances along the way.
Exciting beginning to fantasy series When Freyre kills a fae in wolf form, the High Lord of the Spring Court claims her life in exchange for that of his friend. This begins Freyre's life in the fae realm of Prythian. As a human, everything is unfamiliar to Freyre. Through her eyes, you learn about the blight that overshadows the people and the evil creatures invading the land. As she gets to know and respect her fae captor, she also develops love and loyalty for him and his people. While she doesn't know how a human can help in an immortal battle, she is compelled to get involved.
Immensely enjoyed! Will continue to read the series I really enjoyed this book. I usually stick with contemporary romance and don’t always dabble with fantasy but with its popularity I got sucked in and had to try. I did both, read and listened on audible. The chapter lengths and constant movement within the story made it easy to read, and kept enticing me to continue! I was able to knock it out in a week, which is great with how busy I am! It was enough description, but not too much, I was able to envision the characters and the scenes in my mind of how I would interpret it, which is always wonderful reading a story!
📚✨ Embark on a Enchanting Journey: "A Court of Thorns and Roses" Rating: THREE HUGE STARS (iykyk) ⭐️⭐️⭐️ TLDR: If you are huge on fantasy then start with Throne of Glass (8 Book series that is *chefs kiss*) but if you are starting to get into the Romantasy journey please start with this book. The character development in this series is wonderful. You will instantly fall in love with the world that is Pyrthian.  This review is meant to be fun and whimsical on purpose - enjoy!  Dive into the mesmerizing realm of Sarah J. Maas, the undisputed queen of world-building, with "A Court of Thorns and Roses." This enchanting series opener, a blend of Beauty and the Beast with rich faerie lore, introduces readers to the intoxicating universe that has become synonymous with Maas's signature brilliance.  🌌 A Gateway to the Maasverse: For those stepping into the Maasverse for the first time, "A Court of Thorns and Roses" serves as an exquisite introduction. Maas's unparalleled talent for crafting immersive worlds unfolds within the pages, inviting readers to lose themselves in the intricate tapestry of faerie realms and captivating characters. Brace yourself; you're about to embark on a journey that will linger long after the final page.  📝 Annotate and Unravel: The narrative's depth and intricacy make it a prime candidate for annotation enthusiasts. Dive into the rich tapestry of lore, characters, and plotlines that Maas intricately weaves. Annotating proves not just a reading style but a companionable journey, offering insights and connections that enhance the overall Maasverse experience. If you're into unraveling mysteries, annotations are your secret weapon.  💖 A Love Affair with Destiny: Feyre, the nineteen-year-old huntress, and Tamlin, the lethal faerie captor, take center stage in a spellbinding dance of passion, danger, and destiny. The evolution of their relationship from icy hostility to a fiery passion mirrors Maas's adept storytelling. Prepare to be ensnared by their magnetic connection, a love story that transcends boundaries and defies expectations.  🌑 Shadows of Wickedness: As Feyre navigates the treacherous faerie lands, shadows of ancient wickedness cast a sinister pallor. Maas masterfully intertwines suspense with a looming threat, compelling readers to unravel the secrets concealed within the magical realms. The stakes are high, the dangers palpable, and the journey promises twists that will keep you on the edge of your seat.  🔥 Action, Passion, and Irresistible Allure: The allure of "A Court of Thorns and Roses" lies not just in its action-packed sequences but in the fiery passion that pulses through every page. Maas's ability to infuse intensity into the narrative elevates the reading experience. Prepare for a rollercoaster of emotions, where the thrill of danger intertwines with the warmth of love.  In "A Court of Thorns and Roses," Sarah J. Maas crafts a symphony of fantasy, romance, and suspense. As Feyre's journey unfolds, you'll find yourself captivated by the magic that spills from Maas's pen. Annotate, immerse, and allow the enchantment to seep into your soul. Welcome to the Maasverse—a realm where every page is a portal to extraordinary adventures. 🌹📖💫
My first fantasy I read mostly thrillers but I had to give this a chance, it’s all anyone talks about. I will say the first 10 chapters were hard for me. It’s new for me - fantasy - so I had a hard time getting into it. I’d say chapter 10 though, I couldn’t put it down. I had it read in 2 sit downs. I had to take notes to keep up with the few main characters and also remember the world. This isn’t based on Earth’s World, but the world they have is easy to understand.  It starts about a girl human named Feyre (fay-ruh) and she takes care of her father and sisters. Her father is disabled but lazy nonetheless & her sisters treat her like trash, while expecting to be spoiled. She hunts every day to make sure they don’t starve. Well one day while hunting, she does something wrong that changes her life and starts the entire series of ACOTAR…
An imperfect love - but I still read in twice in 48 hours! Read more of my thoughts about this book and others here: http://bluedollarbill.blogspot.com/2015/05/time-for-another-book-review.html  This is what I get for reading so much YA fantasy, I suppose, instead of legit grown-up literary stuff. Most of the time, it doesn't quite live up to my expectations, but then when it exceeds them, it's just extraordinary. It's always a pleasure to lose yourself in another world, and it's a kind of exquisite joy to marvel at the flexibility and grace of someone else's imagination. Like watching a rhythmic gymnast.  For a change of pace, I read Sarah J. Maas' A Court of Thorn and Roses, which I had preordered, based on my love for her Throne of Glass series and my fondness for the story of Tam Lin. Let's talk about Throne of Glass for a minute: Maas has a fairly cool story. She started writing this series as Queen of Glass on FictionPress when she was a teenager and finally got it published many years (and many revisions) later. It's supposed to be a riff on Cinderella, but only in the sense that Cinderella is the fairy tale that set the author's imagination wandering. The first book, Throne of Glass, grew on me. As a YA fantasy writer, Maas is not Laini Taylor or Maggie Stiefvater. Her sentences don't echo in my head, over and over, like a favorite song. But there is a delight to her characters and their relationships to each other, a sense of humor, sarcasm, witty, good-natured ribbing that washes over the reader like a cup of hot chocolate. Her characters (like Stiefvater's) feel like old friends. Her main character is a girl, an assassin, a voracious reader, who loves music, candy, and beautiful gowns, and manages to be both selfless and self-centered, able to revel to luxury and capable of surviving anything. It doesn't always quite add up - if you pause for too long - but stay immersed in Maas' world and it works.  Also, they wear really awesome clothes. Maas uses Pinterest to good effect - the women, especially, are breathtakingly dressed and she does a fabulous job describing the fashion. On the downside, she does clearly have particular turns of phrase and descriptors she loves to use, and a LOT of people wear clothes that are "simple but obviously of very fine make." It's repetitious, yes, but mostly it just makes me jealous - why can't I find basic, high-quality clothes like white linen shirts that fit me flawlessly and "supple leather" boots than mold to my feet? (Cuyana, please make a few more things. And make the fit a little less unisex. Please.)  For the most part, the plot of Throne of Glass (so far - there are three books out in a six- or seven-book series) works and the twists and turns are intriguing and satisfying. The back story is impressively well-developed. (It's so well-developed, in fact, that I hesitate to return to writing my own novel out of fear that I don't have the imagination to pull it off. Like J.K. Rowling, even the smallest details and introduction of apparently minor characters has major relevance for the plot.) There is a major plot hole in the second book - something that really never makes sense - but it's possible to overlook it and jump back into the flow of the story. Do you ever do that? Simply choose to pretend that your favorite author didn't actually mean what they wrote? As long the rest of the story makes sense without the problematic element, I do - all the time. Often, the problematic element is an illogical explanation for a supporting character's actions and I can imagine into place a more logical one. I reserve my greatest agonizing for books that are beautifully set up, with elegant words and fascinating characters, but where the illogical element ruins all the downstream events and the book collapses like a house of cards.  Where are the editors, I wonder? I should be editing these books.  A Court of Thorns and Roses doesn't quite collapse but it's on shaky ground. The main character never has the depth of the protagonist from Throne of Glass. She's less outlandish and yet less fully realized too - she seems like a mashup of Cinderella and Katniss from The Hunger Games. Both she and the male protagonist are so reserved and laconic that it's rather hard to get to know them, as the reader. That's okay - she still does a better job than most. I think magic is hard to work with, in a story - authors really have to know what the rules are, or readers will question why anything happens the way it does. The rules are perhaps not quite as well-defined in Court of Thorns and Roses as I'd like, but the real problem in the logic comes only in the last quarter of the book. (That's probably why I enjoyed it as much as I did.) Essentially, the last quarter introduces an intriguing antagonist of questionable loyalties but his loyalties aren't quite questionable enough - it's a mystery why the main antagonist lets him get away with playing for both sides as much as he does. Alas, when I'm faced with that kind of mystery, I usually conclude that the author knew where she wanted her story to go and didn't spend enough time thinking through how to get from point A to point B. And then I blame the editor for not being objective enough to see the problem. Because, at least in this case, it could have been written in a way that was more believable, less dependent on luck. And I would have liked it a lot more.  The second problem is harder to describe without spoilers and, indeed, a long explanation of the plot. Essentially, it has to do with why one of the main characters is himself an obstacle to his own romance (which drives much of the plot). The reason makes sense, after the reader has spent some time thinking about it and turning it over and over in her mind. The problem is that the bits and pieces provided by the first-person limited narrator are barely sufficient to realize why he acts as does - and not sufficient to make it wholly believable. Does that make sense? Without nuance, if I were to summarize the plot for someone, this aspect of the plot, of character development and motivation, would make sense and seem quite powerful; but the book needed more richness and detail in this regard to make it "real on paper."  Of course, NONE of this means that I'm not going to pre-order the next book in the trilogy (and mark the date on my calendar) as soon as it's available.
Slow at first but gets good This is a good book for someone who likes fantasy romance. It had a pretty good imagination and I loved all of the riddles, but it resembled Beauty and the Beast a little too much. I loved all of the use of imagery because I could picture it happening throughout the book. My mind played the scenes out as I was reading.
Nice Change I am mostly in debate between 3 and 4 stars. While I enjoyed the book and the storyline, I did get annoyed at some of Feyre's decision-making. She seemed to like to "solve" problems using sex. And warnings were a little lost on her. But the fact that the faeries couldn't talk about anything didn't help matters either.  I did like that Feyre took care of her family. I was impressed to see how strong she was physically. I was sad that she didn't get along with her sisters. I wish her and Tamlin could have talked more. Communication is key. Rhysand can read her mind. I'm not sure that is fair to Tamlin.  Warnings for those looking at this book for themselves or for their children. There is some very descriptive sex scenes. There is some interesting types of abuse that could be triggering for readers, including physical abuse.
If you like Divergent and Ender's Game, you will love the Empyrean Series I'm sure there have been comparisons made to the Divergent series and this book. They both have an intelligent girl thrust into a world they aren't quite prepared for. They struggle with weakness and insecurities until they find their footing and become leaders of sorts. The character building in this series is well done and the storyline is well-developed. Yes, I would agree this reads like Divergent with dragons, but it is definitely not a Young Adult Fiction as there are some elements of "Fifty Shades of Grey" thrown in as well. The narrative grips you from the first chapter and you will find yourself wanting to return to the pages of this story instead of carrying about your day-to-day activities. In that aspect, you might want to start this on a long weekend or vacation so you don't have to put down the book.  The heroine, Violet aka "Violence", is confronted by many challenges, most of which could lead to an untimely death. But the readers are assured that she will survive as there are 3 books in the series. This helps alleviate some of the tension as you know it will turn out okay, but at what cost? The narrative has a bit of foreshadowing so you are clued in to what will happen, just not when. I found myself anticipating certain revelations, many of which are tucked away later in the series. I feel like I know how this story will end, but the final book is months away so I will have to wait patiently to see if I am right. That does not take away from the story and you will be immersed in this world with vivid images of all the characters and the settings in which the story occurs. The writer strikes the perfect balance between giving the reader exactly what we need to envision this world, without overdoing the descriptions. The story is lean and every line is written with purpose. In other words, there is no frill to wade through -- unless, of course, you don't want to read through the steamy details of the sexual encounters. While these may not add to the story, the narrative attempts to convey the overwhelming nature of physical attractions between young adults - lest we have grown old and forgotten what being 21 felt like. I have purposely not given away any of the details of the story, because it is something you should enter with a clear canvas so the writer can paint the pictures for you. You may not think a military style world with cadets and dragons is your thing, but this is more about the dynamics of relationships, trust and strength of character and how they help you overcome overwhelming obstacles. Consider it similar to Ender's Game, where it is much more about the main character and how he uses his intelligence and friendships to survive and influence others than about Battle school. I hope if Amazon does develop this series for their streaming service they do the writer justice. I for one will be waiting with baited breath for its release.
Totally Captivating!! Wow! It has been a LONG time since I have actually felt tension while reading a book. I can read the biggest action scenes at the end of various books and the majority of the time they just don't affect me at all - because I don't care that much about the characters. But THIS - this was different. I felt the tension. And it was real. Plus the author is very willing to kill characters so there is some uncertainty there as well. And the battle at the end of this most excellent book - it was hot and raging. Plus the enemy leaked danger as well. True menace. Very rarely does some enemy in a book impress me at all but this one most certainly did.. Right from the description I just KNEW there was something different about these mages called venin. They seemed impressive too. And very memorable. I wanted to draw them based off of the description. Very rarely do I get that urge.  But what a battle at the end! It was touch and go. What would happen? Would the heroes win or lose? I didn't know. And I felt concern.  This book has made me feel things. Earlier it had made me cry - tears of joy.  And the book has surprised me too. The plot twists! I guess I should have seen it coming but I didn't so I was quite surprised. But it certainly makes the story way more interesting! And I am certainly eager to read the sequel too! This is a massive book and worth reading every word! And rarely do I feel that way. But its exciting and the characters face so many challenges. And there is death too. In fact there is a lot of death in here. Its a very violent world, a tough world of dragons and griffins and things that are supposed to be only legends to scare kids to eat their vegetables...  But what I love the most in here in the main character Violet. She has a connective tissue disorder. I have one too (its called Ehlers Danlos Syndrome - EDS - and I am pretty confident that Violet actually has EDS). I have never run across a character in a book before that has EDS. And certainly not one that is bold enough to be in a fantasy world where she rides a dragon. How cool is that? So yes I certainly can relate to her very well! And so much of the stuff in here is quite accurate too. Exercise is the best way to protect the joints (and personally I find diet matters a ton too). And yes it certainly can make many things way harder. The joints are all wonky and they naturally hyper-extend so doing things - even just balancing - is way harder. But riding a dragon!!! I remember when I was much younger I used to read this other very popular fantasy series that included dragons and I used to try to imagine what it would be like to ride a dragon. Of course I never thought about the issues of staying ON said dragon... But since I ride horses these days I have a better idea of some of the issues. But wow this book is totally AMAZING! it totally captivated my attention. The first evening I started it I got 50% through. And I certainly would have powered through the second half yesterday but unfortunately I have packing to do as I am moving at the end of the month.  If I could I would rate it 6 stars!  The characters are just so real. And they go through character arcs too. They change. They face obstacles and have to find solutions. And there is certainly a bit of romance in here too. The story moved so smoothly. Never a dull moment at all. None. And I just loved the first person writing in here from Violet's viewpoint.  But the story is about a young woman named Violet who has been forced by her very powerful mother to become a dragon rider. That is a warrior. But her body is weak and ill suited for it. So she was training to be a scribe (but all of that writing would be a huge strain on her too - in fact I cannot write very long at all by hand anymore without pain + numbness going down my arm and I get horrid shoulder pain) but that changed - she had to go be a dragon rider or die trying. But its not that easy in fact its very dangerous. Most people who try to become a rider end up dead. And you can be killed by your own classmates! Yes, its a very brutal school. And after all of these difficult obstacles - which Violet is ill suited to pass - she has to hope that a dragon will pick her. But what dragon will pick someone with a body that doesn't work right due to genetic mutations?  And all of that is near the beginning of the book! For a huge mysterious and dangerous problem is brewing in the Kingdom! And poor Violet will run smack into it - err - fly into it. If she can stay on the dragon that is...  You definitely should read this!
My first fantasy and I loved ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ What I loved: - Enemies to lovers - Forced proximity - Found family - Mutual pinning - He falls first - Dragon riders - Signet powers - Crazy challenges - Fierce, intelligent, small by mighty FMC - Broody, grumpy, witty, morally gray MMC - Xaden & Violet’s chemistry, their give and take - The BEST dragons ever (literally so funny and cute and I don’t have one bad thing to say about the dragons 🥰) - Nicknames 🥲 - Liam, fiercely loyal and kind 🥰🥲 - Rhi, funny, loyal, badass - Mira, sisterly love - Epic battles - Xaden’s POV in the end and bonus chapters - He protects her and teaches her  I don’t know how to talk about this book without spoilers or crying 🥲🫠 so enjoy bullet points and a playlist.  This is an open door book with open scenes in Chapters 29 and 32. Easy to skip about 4-5 pages each. There are frequent discussions of sex and innuendo. There is a lot of cursing, violence, and death.  Songs for the book: For Xaden & Violet: “Don’t Blame Me” by Taylor Swift * “Nonsense” by Sabrina Carpenter “Bad Habits” by Ed Sheeran “Shameless” by Camila Cabello “Living Proof” by Camila Cabello “Into you” by Ariana Grande “Last night” by Morgan Wallen “War of Hearts” by Ruelle “So it goes” by Taylor Swift  Violet to Xaden: “Love You Anyway” by Luke Combs “Shadows” by Sabrina Carpenter “I miss you” by Adele “I’m Fakin” by Sabrina Carpenter  Xaden to Violet: “Sleeptalking” by Jake Scott *** “Pointless” by Lewis Capaldi “I deserve a drink” by Morgan Wallen “Chemical” by Post Malone “Solo” by Myles Smith “Beautiful Things” by Benson Boone “When the party’s over” by Billie Eilish  For Violet: “Exhale” by Sabrina Carpenter “Who’s Afraid of Little Old Me” by Taylor Swift “Can’t Catch Me Now” by Olivia Rodrigo  Violet & Dain: “Feel it Twice” by Camilla Cabello  Dain to Violet: “Vicious” by Sabrina Carpenter “Thinkin bout me” by Morgan Wallen  Liam & Xaden: “Brother” by Kodaline
worth the hype! ~ my brief synopsis:  Fourth Wing takes place in Navarre at Basgiath war college. The story follows Violet Sorrengail, who is about to undergo Conscription Day—a day when all 20-year-olds in Navarre must pledge to a specific quadrant (healers, infantry, scribes, or riders—the deadliest of all being the riders quadrant).  Violet is described to be petite and fragile, which is why she committed her whole life to studying scribes. However, being a daughter of Navarre’s Commanding General has forced Violet to pledge a dragon rider at the last minute. Violet’s sealed fate left her with only two options—to live as a rider or to die trying.  ~ thoughts ☁️  I’ve read a lot of amazing and life changing books this year, but Fourth Wing takes the mf cake!! For me, this is no doubt a 5★ read. I simply cannot bear to ever let go of this world and its characters. First of all, the world building in this book is phenomenal and so easy to follow for a fantasy book. Maybe it’s the academia trope that I didn’t even realize I love so much or maybe it’s the top tier relationship between Xaden/Violet and their dragons? 🤷🏻‍♀️ Whatever the reason, this was hands down my most enjoyable read of 2023. ❤️‍🔥  Regardless of seeing this book dominate social media over the past few months, I can say that I went in completely blind. I did not read one synopsis or review in efforts to preserve my reading experience. The fact that the world building became so clear within a matter of a couple chapters made me appreciate the writing even more. 🫶🏼
I NEED THE SEQUEL RIGHT MEOW! John Palladino, author of the grimdark fantasy series, The Tragedy of Cedain, picked this book for me to read. He said he'd heard a lot of people say good things about it, but the people he trusted absolutely hated it. He wanted to know what I thought. So here we are.  What do I think? I started this book and became obsessed. For the three days it took me to read it, I was either curled up in my chair physically reading it or suffering through the audiobook when I had to actually get up and function as an adult.  I would recommend reading this one physically, if possible. I had the good fortune to land both FOURTH WING and IRON FLAME in hardback during a sale in recent months. As is my habit, I checked out the audiobook from my library so that I could pair the two together. Rebecca Soler is the narrator and I did not enjoy her narration at all. Well - there is one exception - during certain scenes, Soler did match the pacing of the scene with her narration, and infused it with emotion that I felt truly captured the intensity of the moment. So there's that.  I loved so many of the characters in this story. Even though the book description warned me that the only way to leave this war college was to graduate or die, I still fell in love with these kids and rooted for them to conquer each challenge faced and survive to the end. It may surprise you fantasy readers out there to know that I favored the human characters over the dragons in this book. Don't get me wrong - the dragons were magnificent and I loved learning the little bits of history they shared and most especially loved learning about their magic and how it changed, based on their chosen Rider. It's been two days since I finished the book and I'm still in the horrible throes of a book hangover. (Thank goodness I already have the next book on hand to start soon!)  What I loved most about FOURTH WING was the setting. Even though there were a few deaths - one in particular - that devastated me, I wouldn't change a thing. This war college where young adults enter with the intent to become a Dragon Rider had a staggeringly low success rate. First, you have to survive the entrance to the Rider Quadrant. If you successfully navigated that, you were officially a cadet. Cadets then began their first year of training where they must survive challenges, training, education, fellow students and even the dragons! Just because you completed everything to a point, the dragons could reject you. (Hopefully by simply ignoring you and not with fire)  I was engrossed with the magic that was bestowed upon the Riders from their dragons. The dragons were able to channel magic through their bond to the Rider and the abilities manifested in different ways, depending on the Rider. Who the Rider was at their core - the kind of person they were - matched their magical abilities. I know the magic in this book was just brushing the surface, so I'm looking forward to continuing the series to see how it continues to build and seeing if the Riders' magic evolves further.  Obviously, this is a fantasy romance, so I feel like I should mention my opinion on the love story between our main characters. I liked it! It felt like the type of romance a couple of young 20-somethings would have, especially in a setting where they literally might not survive the day. It was quick, full of fire and flat out consuming. So many rant reviews I've seen focus on the "horny dragons" - I'm confused why people picked out that one scene that only took up a couple pages and what happened between the dragons took place off the page. I mean, how else do you think baby dragons get made?  In closing, I had a great time with this book and CANNOT wait to get started on the sequel. I'm at war with myself because I want to read it immediately, but then I also want to wait a bit closer to when the next book releases in early 2025. Decisions, decisions!
Gave me an amazing book-hangover! I inhaled this book, it was so good! I know people have a lot of opinions about this one. Some people I saw complaining about the lack of world building, but I didn’t see that. I felt that there was world building, it’s just alongside a fast moving plot. And no, it’s not as detailed as some fantasy novels. Other complain that it’s just a mashup of divergent and hunger games. I definitely see that, but I have no problem with it. I loved both those series (except the ending of divergent, which was not ok), and I enjoyed reading something with a similar vibe.  The characters were lovable and complex. The spice was spicy, but didn’t take over the plot like in some spicy books. I really enjoyed reading this book and it gave me the great rush and book-hangover that comes from being completely absorbed in a good book. ☺️  My only issue was with the disability representation. I loved that the main character has a disability, but I felt like it was only incorporated when it was interesting or convenient. She’s very fragile, and yet she never has bad days, and the spicy scenes are intense and somewhat violent, and yet she has no problems with it, isn’t accidentally injured. That seemed somewhat unrealistic. As a person with disabilities, I wish that part had been treated with a bit more realism.
Loved every second of this book •Enemies to Lovers •NA Fantasy •Chronic Illness rep •Spicy S •Dragons  My Oh My. Finally read Fourth Wing after all the hype and my friends convincing me to finally read it, and let me tell y'all. It did NOT disappoint. This book is basically a combination of How To Train Your Dragon and Harry Potter. What else could you want? * For real though, this book is phenomenal. The tension starts at the very beginning and doesn't let up. This book really challenges the characters, Violet grows so much in so many different ways. I loved reading about her growth and how far she has come throughout the book. Also, DRAGONS, who doesn't love dragons in fantasy. Absolutely adore the dragons in this book and how the bonds work between dragon and rider. They are very protective of their riders.  Everyone was talking about to twist at the end, I was so excited because I love twists. Sadly, it was ruined for me on tiktok. I saw a spoiler without a spoiler warning on the video even though I tried so hard to avoid them. But I will say, it was still an amazing twist and turn. If it wasn't spoiled for me I would have screamed!!  If you haven't, you definitely need to pick up this book. I promise it's worth the hype. I am already counting down the days for Iron Flame to comes out!
Worth the hype! "A dragon without its rider is a tragedy. A rider without their dragon is dead." -Article One, Section OneThe Dragon Rider's Codex  Was the hype worth it? 100% In my opinion! I absolutely loved it and couldn't put it down I was even dreaming about it (not joking) so pretty much I am obsessed! Every page had me on the edge of my seat waiting to see what happened next, this book had me going through all the motions on this crazy ride that leaves you right on the edge.  "Never look a red in the eye. Never back down from a green. If you show trepidation to a brown...well, just don't."  At 20 years old, Violet Sorrengail, was supposed to be entering in the scribes quadrant but her mother, a General and the head commander at Bagiath orders her to sign up for the riders quadrant where her odds of survival are minimal. Violet has a condition that affects her bones and ligaments that's leaves her in constant pain while having to not only deal with unforgiving dragons but also other blood thirsty cadets who will do anything to knock her down. Death seems to be lurking around every corner but Violet's not going down without a fight or dragon!  "Wanting you will be the death of me."  Violet is now one of my favorite FMC's of all time! I loved her mental strength, quick wit, and determination. Even though she has a disability she didn't let it define her and instead used her other strengths and opponents weaknesses in her favor.  Xaden is the typical broody, morally grey love interest that I absolutely love! At the start he was introduced as the son of a traitor and the most powerful wing leader that Violet should absolutely steer clear of but we all knew that wouldn't be happening. The way he looks at Violet it's hard to tell if he wants to kiss her or ☠️ her and it's probably both lol. All in all run and read this book!
4.5 Stars One Sunday, I was visiting blogs, which I don't get to do very often, and stumbled upon one that caught my eye. I can't remember the exact wording, but the blogger stated they didn't enjoy a book that was getting a ton of buzz and love. However she worded her comments piqued my interest, so I looked up the book on Goodreads and decided almost instantly that it sounded like something I would like. I added it to my wish list, and Husband bought it for me for my birthday. I still put off reading it for a while because I needed to focus on review books first. I finally found time to pick it up, and I have to say that I didn't want to put Fourth Wing down. We never have lazy days where we just let the kids watch TV all day, but Husband wasn't feeling well, it was 101 degrees outside, and I was enthralled. So I read every chance I got that first day and read about 80% by midnight. I needed to sleep because I knew that was too much to finish at a reasonable time for me. And I finished the other 20% the next day.  Fourth Wing has everything you could want from the first release in a new fantasy series. You have a flawed leading character--Violet is fragile. Her bones break easily, her joints and ligaments are weak as well. She is short. And generally not physically strong. She is, however, brilliantly intelligent. She spent her entire life training to go to the scribe quadrant. But her mother, one of the nation's top military leaders, decrees that Violet will enter the dragon rider's quadrant instead.  The rider's quadrant is a vicious school of tests and challenges that will end with more cadets dead than alive. Often times the tests kill the cadets. Just as often, the other cadets will do the killing. And what deaths remain are likely from the dragons themselves! Unique schools like this are why series like Harry Potter, Vampire Academy, Divergent, Red Rising, and even Throne of Glass have been wildly popular and universally loved.  And I mean dragons! The appeal of these mythological creatures is fascinating. Perhaps because they're imaginary, we love the different iterations of dragons throughout various literature and media. Fourth Wing's dragons are some of the best I've come across, from the varieties and their discerning qualities to their ability and willingness to bond to humans. Plus, the bond enables a psychic connection with their riders. These dragons are so well done. I applaud Rebecca Yarros for her imagination and vivid depictions in bringing them all to life.  The friends are an interesting variety as well. There are friendships that form almost instantly, those that have spanned entire lifetimes, those that form unexpectedly, and even ones that form begrudgingly. The personalities differ as much as the dragons and the abilities they bestow upon their riders. Violet's older sister, Mira, warns her against forming friendships in the rider's quadrant. Allies are important, but friendship can often be a liability. Plus, when cadets are dying more frequently than surviving, forming friendships means saying goodbye to people who have shared pieces of their hearts with you and vice versa. But Violet doesn't survive the rider's quadrant by following the path others have established. She must survive by her own instincts and her own journey through the tests and trials.  Speaking of abilities, Rebecca Yarros also did an excellent job creating a wide range of abilities since there are so many different characters. None of the signets were too similar to each other. And I loved the intrigue of wondering what new talent would be gifted to the next cadet. She even forms opposite sides of a coin without it appearing to be mirror talents.  The enemies were fierce. We start off with Violet being warned by her sister Mira to steer clear of Xaden Riorson because he will kill her as soon as he gets the chance as revenge for what her mother did to his father in executing the king's justice for his father's rebellion. Violet meets him almost immediately. Nearly the same time, a brutal new cadet sets his sights on her as an easy target to weed out the weak links. Only Violet embarrasses the new cadet, and he swears revenge that he will kill her. And he's not the only person she ticks off during her first year. Xaden is hard to read. He forces Violet into his wing since he's a wingleader. He bounces back and forth between giving her advice that will help her survive, ignoring her completely, and sending others to her in ways that could be construed either for or against her.  Of course, the driving questions are about whether Violet will survive each challenge she's faced with. If she does, will a dragon want to bond with her? At least until you get to a point where you have answers to these questions, and then you want to know what will happen next. I can't reveal those questions to you as they'd be spoilers.  Favorite quotes: -"They choose for reasons they don't see fit to share with us." He pushes off his desk. "And not all strength is physical, Violet."  -You are not attracted to toxic men, I remind myself...  I had to laugh at that one.  -"One does not live a century without being well aware of the space one takes up."  -"Justice is not always merciful."  -"I know you just want to keep me safe,...,"I whisper. "But keeping me safe is also keeping me from growing, too."  -"I will hate you for this." "Yeah." He nods, a flash of pure regret crossing his face as he draws away. "I can live with that."  -"Andarna is my favorite."  -"You can ride me when the flesh rots off my bones, wingleader."  -"Whatever you feel is natural. Allow yourself to feel it, but then let it go."  -"...if we let fear kill whatever this is between us, then we don't deserve it."  -"One generation to change the text. One generation to choose to teach that text. The next grows, and the lie becomes history."  I was so disheartened when I finished Fourth Wing and went to go purchase Iron Flame only to find that it wasn't released yet. The unique school setting where the cadets die more often than survive. The friends. The enemies. The romance. The DRAGONS. All of it was exactly what I look for in a series. Now, I will say that once the characters leave the setting of the school and undoubtedly have to face the corrupt government, things have the potential to go south like series such as Divergent and The Hunger Games. We shall see if The Empyrean series can survive the traps that other series before it fell into or will it thrive similar to series like Red Rising and Throne of Glass. That being said, Fourth Wing gets 4.5 Stars. Have you read Fourth Wing? What did you think? Let me know!
Didn't live up to the hype-so disappointing I learned about this book through Instagram and what first caught my attention was the cover, especially the dragons on it then the mention of dragons and that it was a fantasy. So, interested I read the sample chapters, read a variety of reviews and ignoring the tiny voice of reason in my head telling me not to, I bought the book. Normally when it involves fantasy and dragons I give all my attention to the book, I barely eat or drink or sleep, but this book I took my time with at times putting it aside (I bought the e-book) for a couple of days. Something about it was setting off internal alarms in my head that screamed "this book will be a disappointment return it now" and my instincts were right. What first caught my attention was how much the point of view resembled a 15-16 year old teenager's instead of a woman in her late teens, early twenties. She was very immature both emotionally and mentally. For someine who grew up with a breakable body like her, growing up in a war faving more hardship than probably anyone else one would think Violet would be more mature for her age but she comes off as a 14-16 year old going through puberty. Secondly was the lack of information about this disease her mother caught while pregnant with her that made Violet so weak and frail or how disappointed her mother was with her for not originally wanting to be a dragon rider, for being weak (I don't blame Violet for not wanting to be a dragon rider (soldier?) seeing how the mortality rate was so high for them) which she couldn't help that she was born that way. The way her mother forved her to be a rider is just cruel, she's already lost her son and now she's risking her youngest child especially with the middle child already being a dragon rider? You'd think she'd want to save her remaining children. Third reason why I started to dislike this book was all the modern day names and lack of creativity. "Mess-less pens" can we say fountain pen or ballpoint pen? Then using our month system, I mean COME ON, could the author not make up her own month names, she had to use our month system? Not very creative, seems kinda lazy actually especially since she could come up with such creative dragon breeds like Scorpiontail, Daggertail, Morningstartail, etc. And she could come up with names for the gods/goddesses, for the countires/kingdoms such as Navarre but she couldn't make up her own month names? Then their is the modern day names too: Violet, Liam, Jack, Lilith, Rhiannon. Sure she has some names that could be considered as fantasy but for the most part the common, everyday names is what got to me. Then she even mentions God. God as in the Christian God, the Holy Father, God from the Bible. Here is all the times God is mentioned: pgs. 95, 261, 263. It's not gods, it's God complete with the capital G. That was the biggest issue for me, her mentioning God when it's supposed to be an FANTASY book. I even emailed the author asking her about her mentioning Him- if it was on purpose or a mistake- and she didn't even bother to respond and it's been like 4 months. Fourth reason this book was a disappointment for me was Violet's near immediate attraction to Xaden. The whole romance between the two of them. It felt rushed, like the author wanted them to hook up straight away like one of those cheesy romance novels where the characters sleep together because they're so in love by Chapter 2. I hate romance books where the characters are attracted to each other based on physical looks first- it just feels shallow- then they're attracted to the personality. The book was less of a romance fantasy and more of an erotica fantasy book. I actually found myself skimming through the sex scenes because like previous people commented, the scenes were just going on and on. I mean I think one scene they had sex for like half the day and entire night, it's just unrealistic. Another reason was the lack of description of the dragons. I like to imagine what the dragons look like while I'm reading, just saying the dragon was a Daggertail means nothing to me-so the dragon has a dagger like tail, long and narrow with a sharp tip? And the Scorpiontail-does the dragon tail arch up over its back like a scorpions? What about the Morningstartail? It's tail is like the Morningstar weapon? What also bugged me was that the author mentioned how one dragon's height was equal to the height of a two story building. Okay whoop dee doo, two stories? That's it? That's how tall the dragons are? And are all dragons that tall? Tairn was described as being huge, okay just HOW huge? What's his height? How much bigger is he compared to the other dragons? What also irritated me was toward the end, Xaden's POV. He's portrayed as this badass, confident guy but his POV just made him seem... pathetic. He's in his early twenties yet he's acting like Violet is the love of his life and he's nothing without her. Too clingy. After all he's been through, all those kids being his responsibility one would think he'd be more mature for his age but he just comes off as a love sick teenager not a young man living on the knifes edge. Then their is how gentle Violet is with him-towards him when she learns the truth about him and the others, how... understanding she is. If I were her I'd be causing physical pain, I wouldn't be gentle or understanding, I'd be betrayed and angry and showing it. Then the best friend. I was disgusted at how controlling he was over Violet. At times he felt more like a brother than a best friend, other times he acted like a jealous ex-boyfriend than a friend. He started out pretty cool then just fell. The fact that he believed so strongly in that wingleader that tried to kill Violet in her sleep over Violet- who is his best friend since childhood- was just disgusting. That right there sent up red flags about him. He basically betrayed her by going against her, siding with that woman then insisting that Violet retract her claims, wanting the woman to be saved. THEN trying to use his gift/ power on her to get the truth? Can we say personal violation on so many levels? He reminds me of one of those people who are goody little two shoes, never break a rule, insists on everyone else following the rules and- wait I've got it. He's a stick in the mud. Or is it he's got a stick shoved up his backside? That refrence applies to the best friend. I was just really disappointed in this story, that it fell short especially due to all the hype going on about it. I felt like she was copying other authors (dragons communicating via telepathy that's from Eragon?) and lack of just fantasy creativity. It's like she cobbled together all her favorite fantasy concepts and threw them together into this poor excuse of a fantasy book. Pens, clocks, college- it couldn't be called an university or academy?- the months and common people names! She should stick to her rom-com fiction romance books and stay outta the fantasy genre. The fact that other people are saying it's better than Sarah J Maas books are utterly blind and lack common sense, as far as I know Sarah J Maas didn't steal from other fantasy books to create her Throne of Glass series, or her Court series. And even if she did borrow from others, she actually put in EFFORT unlike Rebecca Yarros to make her series true fantasy instead of faux-fantasy which is what this book is. I'm entirely sure I won't be reading the second book and I'm positive that I won't be re-reading this one.
Exciting and Refreshing Read "Fourth Wing (The Empyrean, 1)" is an exciting and engaging read that offers a refreshing take on the fantasy genre. While it's not "Lord of the Rings," it brings its own unique charm and captivating plot that kept me hooked from start to finish.  Engaging Plot: The storyline is fast-paced and filled with intriguing twists and turns. The plot is well-constructed, keeping me on the edge of my seat as I eagerly turned each page to see what would happen next. The author does a fantastic job of building suspense and maintaining a high level of excitement throughout the book.  Unique Take on Fantasy: What sets "Fourth Wing" apart is its unique approach to the fantasy genre. It doesn't try to emulate classics like "Lord of the Rings," but instead carves out its own niche with original world-building and imaginative elements. This fresh perspective makes it a standout read.  Character Development: The characters are well-developed and relatable. I found myself invested in their journeys and personal growth. Their interactions and relationships are thoughtfully portrayed, adding depth to the story.  Vivid World-Building: The world-building in "Fourth Wing" is vivid and detailed. The author creates a rich and immersive environment that draws you in and makes you feel like you're part of the adventure. The settings are described with such clarity that it's easy to visualize the fantastical landscapes and cultures.  Room for Improvement: While the book is highly enjoyable, there are moments where the pacing could have been a bit more balanced. Some sections felt rushed, and a little more time spent on certain plot points and character backstories would have added even more depth to the story.  Overall Experience: Overall, "Fourth Wing (The Empyrean, 1)" is an exciting and refreshing addition to the fantasy genre. It's not "Lord of the Rings," but it doesn't need to be. It stands on its own with a thrilling plot, well-crafted characters, and a unique world that captures the imagination. I highly recommend it to fantasy fans looking for a new and engaging read. This book earns a solid four stars!
A Captivating Romantic Fantasy That Builds to an Enthralling Crescendo Fourth Wing is a well-written and immersive romantic fantasy novel that slowly but surely draws you into its intricate world and compelling character dynamics. While the pacing may test some readers' patience initially, those who stick with it will be rewarded with a captivating and steamy narrative that leaves you eager for the next installment.  The book's greatest strength lies in its rich worldbuilding and detailed lore surrounding the various celestial beings and their intricate societies. The author's vivid descriptions and attention to detail make it easy to become fully invested in this fantastical realm, where good, evil, and other mythical creatures coexist in a delicate balance of power and desire.  The romantic aspects of the story, while slow to unfold, are skillfully crafted and genuinely engaging once they take center stage. The chemistry between the central characters is palpable, and their interactions sizzle with an intensity that will undoubtedly satisfy fans of the romantasy genre. The author's ability to build tension and anticipation pays off in spades during the latter portions of the book, delivering scenes that are both steamy and emotionally resonant.  However, it's worth noting that the narrative does take its time establishing the world and character dynamics before diving into the more overtly romantic elements. Some readers may find the initial pacing a bit too leisurely, wishing for a more expedited journey to the spicier aspects of the story. That said, the patient buildup ultimately enhances the payoff, making the eventual romantic encounters feel earned and all the more impactful.  Despite the slower start, "Fourth Wing" manages to build momentum and excitement as it progresses, culminating in a gripping finale that leaves you craving more. The last quarter of the book is an absolute page-turner, filled with unexpected twists, sizzling encounters, and tantalizing hints of what's to come in the next installment of the series.  Overall, "Fourth Wing" is a well-crafted and engaging romantic fantasy that rewards patient readers with a richly imagined world and a tantalizing love story that builds to an enthralling crescendo. While some may wish for a brisker pace early on, the payoff is undeniably satisfying, making this a solid entry in the romantasy genre and a promising start to an intriguing new series.
the hype is so deserved!! ”you can't make me fall for you and then die. none of this is worth it without you."  if i could give this book an infinite number of stars, then i definitely would.  this book was amazing in every possible way and deserves every bit of hype that it has gotten. from the world-building, to the characters, the storyline, the romance, the plot twists, the writing, everything was absolutely perfect.  this review is not spoiler free so continue if you’d like :)  i am xaden riorson’s biggest fan. he’s definitely my new favorite male main character. throughout everything, he gave me major azriel vibes with his shadows and his ability to speak mind to mind with violet gave me major feyre and rhysand vibes, so if you love acotar then you’ll definitely love this book as well. the way he is completely and utterly obsessed with violet makes my so incredibly happy (although i wish he’d talk about me that way) but honestly, the two of them are two of my favorite people to ever exist. seeing jealous and protective xaden >>> anyways, i just love him so much and he deserves to be happy in iron flame, i won’t have it any other way. i’m going to defend him until the end tbh.  ”i’ve been yours for longer than you could ever imagine."  violet is definitely one of my favorite fmc’s ever!! she’s such a strong person and i absolutely adore her for always overcoming every single challenge thrown her way and never yielding to anyone or letting them get away with mistreating her. and she has not one, but TWO badass dragons who are polar opposites. tairn is so sassy and i love him so much, then andarna is so adorable and sweet. tairn being mated to sgayel and violet and xaden being in love?! yes and YES. not only that, but violet has the coolest signet ever and is so powerful. i love how she never lets anyone tell her she’s not worthy, and overcomes her fears. seeing her stand up for herself each and every time something happened was everything.  speaking of people not thinking she’s worthy, screw dain aetos. i wish him the worst in iron flame. we lost liam and he gets to live?! not fair. i hope he gets his karma for what he did. he’s like tamlin but worse in my opinion, he’s so beyond aggravating.  “trust me, she wasn't looking at me, and even if she were.. he pauses, his hand slipping to cradle the back of my head as he holds us steady despite the gusting wind. "gods help me, i’m only looking at you."  xaden and violet deserve to be happy in the next book and i really can’t wait to see them together again. like they need to make up and finally be in a relationship.. i’m so upset that they didn’t make up at the end of this book, but i’m so hopeful to see what happens in their future. the best couple🥹  i could go on and on about how amazing this book is honestly. i felt so many emotions while reading it and i loved every second. i feel so attached to the characters and the story and i need iron flame right now, november 7th can’t come fast enough. rebecca yarros did some amazing work with this one and as i said, the hype is so deserved <3
Light on the fantasy and plot, heavy on the romance. I should start this by saying, I'm not much of a romance novel reader so I'm probably not the target audience. I got it because I was looking through the kindle store at fantasy books and it had great ratings. My normal books that I like are more hard magic systems; I love very believable characters in solid magic system worlds going through troubles that they may or may not succeed at, but that both their strengths and weaknesses carry them through. I love worlds that feel very different from ours in believable ways that I can really imagine.  This review will not be spoiler free, just as an FYI before continuing!  Things I liked: - I like the setting and the premise. I love a good school story where the main character has to work through politics and enemies and friendships and still learn and grow. - I love dragon riders. - I loved her relationship with Tairn, and I loved how he saw her inner strength and helped make accommodations for her to help her when she wasn't able to stay on his back. I wish there was more of their relationship in the book. - I like the twist at the end. It is the one thing giving me hope for a plot in the second book. - I like that there wasn't a break in the action. - I loved that the enemy to friends to lovers characters had mated dragons and that they could feel the attraction through them. - Even though I enjoyed hating him for Violet's sake, I actually liked Dain as a character moving the book forward. He had believable motivations that he stuck to, even though his antagonism was mostly surface level towards Violet. The part that I disliked the most about him is that he didn't evolve really in either direction. He didn't start trusting her more, she just kept proving him wrong and he kept trying to tell her that she was going to die and going behind her back to try to get her out of the school. Nothing about the dynamic ever changed.  Things I disliked: - The characters were not believable to me. They took me out of the experience. Xaden's entire personality was revolved around being extremely attracted to Violet and helping her, especially in his POV chapter at the end, and being a moody guy. Violet's entire personality was getting angry and stubborn, and while I absolutely empathized with parts of it (because I'm also a stubborn bitch sometimes), it felt very over the top and teenagery in a lot of places. - This is still personality related, but the dragons deserved more. The whole book is about being trained to be dragon riders (I guess it's mainly about the romance, but the plot still should be there) and we got absolutely nothing about the dragon's true purpose. We also got very little about Tairn and Andarna. We don't even have a solid reason as to why two dragons chose her except... she's special I guess? I actually really really liked Tairn and would have loved to read more about him and his thought processes but we barely got anything from them. Also, it's weird that giant, ancient dragons are just at the beck and call of barely 20 year olds. I would be willing to put that aside if it seemed like they had more going on and it was developed and explained more, or if the rest of the plot captured me more, but as is it was explained only in a cursory way. - The plot was somewhat scattered and haphazard. There was a plot, there were at times things that seemed relevant, but it seemed to be focused too much on keeping the reader in the dark and so it was a bit scattered at times and barely there at others. - I really wish it had been an actual enemies to friends to lovers story. It really didn't read that way at all. Violet was attracted to him the second that she saw him, and Xaden was helping her and barely antagonizing her the entire time. It felt like a façade of an enemies to lovers story, when it was in reality just some edgy people who didn't want to like each other immediately wanting to "climb each other like trees". - The voice of every character sounded the same. They swore the same, they thought the same, they were edgy in similar ways.... All but Liam, who seemed to be there only so that he could die. He didn't ever really... save her from anything either even though he was meant to be her bodyguard. He was just there to be a kind person that died for emotional impact it felt like. - The sex scenes were very long lol. I should have expected that in a romance novel, but once they started having sex they kind of just didn't stop, and then I thought we'd get a break and learn more about the plot, but then it felt like the very next scene they were at it again. Don't get me wrong, they were very steamy, but there was no being left wanting more, it was just there for what felt like the second half of the book. - I don't quite understand why it was brought up that the powers of a person were related to who they were inside if most people just have very generic powers (Violet included). Time stopping and lightning destruction? Seeing things far away? Control over a basic element? It feels like that was just thrown in there to make it so we knew that Xaden was very edgy, but I could be wrong. - The timing felt off to me. I liked that there wasn't a break in the action, but sometimes hours would go by between chapters and other times it would be months. Really? Months where nothing at all happened? Not a single interesting interaction that could help flesh out a character? It just felt weird, and the plot and the romance, as mentioned before, didn't move at equal paces. I wish they were more interspersed rather than kind of clumped like they were. - She was supposed to be a scribe initially, but that barely ever came up in any way other than her being smart and understanding tactics. It didn't seem like something that she ever wanted or something that she was invested in, and felt a little like a contrived plot device to make her seem like a fish out of water.  Overall, I didn't hate the book, but if the second book came out tomorrow I'm not sure that I'd read it, so that gets it a 3 stars from me. I think I may just not be a romance novel person, but if you are, you'll probably enjoy it! I know I spent way longer on the things I didn't like about it, but there are so many glowing reviews that I figure most people understand what they might like about it if they read those.
I am OBSESSED. “A dragon without its rider is a tragedy. A rider without their dragon is dead.”  What I wouldn’t give to experience this book for the first time again. I have no words. Well, I have words but they most likely will be the same electrifying adjectives over and over because I cannot get over how much I loved this book. I have a serious book hangover after reading Fourth Wing and want to live in this world for a very long time. Fourth Wing was and is absolutely tremendous in every sense of the word. The thrills, the suspense, the dire situations, the characters, the slow-burn, and harshness of the world all crash together to create such an epic story.  “Going for blood today, are we, Violence?”  Lets start with our MC, Violet or Violence shall we say (those who have read, did you swoon a little there?). Violet is petite and book smart and she is thrust into a world of strength and death. She constantly approaches every challenge with a strong head and an even stronger heart. I honestly adored following her and watching her grow.  Alright, now, we’ve got “side” characters for days here all of which I love for very different reasons. I rarely do this, but I am going to break down my thoughts on them a little bit. It just shows you how obsessed I am with this book.  - Violet’s squad with Sawyer, Rhi, and Ridoc…just all the yes! I loved the banter between them and the true alliance they all formed. - The “rebellion relic crew”: I actually really liked seeing Garrick, Bodhi, Imogen, and Liam. My heart goes to Liam and his friendship with Vi in this, but I am excited to learn more about all of them in the next book. - Dain. Dain is such an interesting character. As Violet’s best friend you easily love their immediate banter and closeness. However, Dain has a lot of layers to him throughout the book… I’ll be very curious to see him in the future. - Tairn, Adarna, and Sgeayl: DRAGONS! Okay, the connections formed between dragons and riders was awe-inducing. I especially loved Violet’s bond with Tairn. I loved how Rebecca shaped these interactions and the story-building for it.  “Even the most effective poisons come in pretty packages, and Xaden’s exactly that—as beautiful as he is lethal."  - Xaden Riorson. Ohhhh Xaden, Xaden, Xaden… absolutely my new top book boyfriend. Not only is he fierce, strong, smart, and sexy AF, he is also loyal and encouraging. Watching him and Violence collide was unlike any other.  The fantasy aspect of Fourth Wing is just spectacular and explosive in every sense of the words. Rebecca Yarros combined college, with dragons, with magic, with war, with romance, with challenges, and amazing world building. I could NOT get enough of this world and loved each and every part she brought to this novel.  Trying to wait until November for the second book is going to be torture. This has absolutely been my favorite book of the year so far and I am counting down the days until we are back with Violence, Xaden, and co. Holy gods I am OBSESSED. *puts countdown in phone*
5 stars for vibe, not complexity It is criminal that we have to wait for the second book.  The review that follows is, to be honest, largely negative, so it may seem strange that I would rate it 5 stars and recommend you to read the book. This is a good time to mention that if you're worried about spoilers, I don't really spoil anything that's not obvious within the first 50 pages, but if you're trying to go in blind (then idk why you're reading reviews in the first place, but whatever), then stop reading.  I went into this book thinking I was about to read a high fantasy novel with a side-story of romance, not realizing it was actually a New Adult/BookTok style book (in the same realm as From Blood and Ash, The Serpent and the Wings of Night, and any other recently published book where the main character has a super serious condition that apparently only affects them prior to the plot of the novel because they have no real issue overcoming it, the enemy naturally is the love interest simply due to being overwhelmingly attractive, and despite being in the military everyone blatantly ignores the chain of command).  Once I adjusted my expectations, I genuinely enjoyed the story. Most of my criticisms essentially are about the author not going far enough into her fantasy setting.  Where to begin. There are some plot holes/discrepencies that are very common in NA books. The book starts out a little shaky in my opinion, with no real justification why exactly Violet couldn't just disobey Mom and be a scribe. There's no real explanation regarding what made Rider Mom force her to be a rider and why that decision was made less than six months before school started, when Scribe Dad has been dead for years. We also get a lot of world "building" dumped on us in extremely obvious ways in the beginning.  The main part of the plot comes off a little Zodiac Academy-ish. The main character is the general's daughter, yet mysteriously none of the cadets show her any respect solely because she's a string bean with six months of apparently crappy training under her belt. It's a three year school, pretty sure killing the general's daughter the first year would have really crappy political ramifications.  After the Threshing, our setting finally expands and the characters become more interesting. Although once again, I'm not sure why it was drilled into readers about how scary and vicious and strict dragons are when Violet talks down to hers constantly.  I (tried to) stop nitpicking at this point because it's a fantasy novel that calls parents "Mom" and "Dad", boys "hot", and has the same calendar system as the real world. It's not true high fantasy, so although in my opinion this book would have been better by removing modern phrases and replacing them with realistic fantasy phrases, I wasn't going to let that alter my enjoyment of the story.  If you've made it this far, I hope that my point is coming across. This book had such good bones, the world history and magic system is interesting and the characters have potential. But it feels like the book was written specifically to be a New Adult novel instead of really diving in and embracing the fantastical elements. I am admittedly a fan of heavy high fantasy with lots of lore and real feeling consequences, and this book seems to hint at that but instead skip off to be trendy.  REGARDLESS. I rate books 5/5 when I want to re-read them, and I definitely plan on re-reading this and devouring the second. I simply hope the author doesn't continue falling into the tropes that have dominated the book sector since the rise of BookTok, and really embraces the lore and darkness that is at the heart of the story.
Lords of Discipline + Dragonriders of Pern + ...steamy romance? But it works! I first came across Fourth Wing when I noticed it in the #1 position on Amazon's Best Science Fiction and Fantasy of 2023 So Far. But beyond that selection, I looked at how the reviews were trending. At the time, there were more than 21,000 reviews (it's now about to crest 40,000), and the average was a whopping 4.8 stars. It has to be good for that many people to love it, right? In need of a palate cleanser after the difficult read that was The Whispers, I decided I'd limit the likelihood of another clunker and see what all the hype is about. And I'm happy to say that I get why so many people love this book: it's pretty great.  Fourth Wing is set at Basgiath War College in the mythical land of Navarre. It opens on Conscription Day, where thousands of twenty-year-olds assemble to take their place among the healers, scribes, or infantry. The most elite of them try to join the most selective branch and become dragon riders.  Our heroine is Violet Sorrengail. Bookish and smart, yet frail, she always imagined a future as a scribe, just as her father had been. But her mother is a rider and a general in the army, and she has other ideas. Against Violet's wishes, her mother insists she attempt to be a rider as well. But this isn't an idle push in a different direction. The stakes are the highest possible for those trying to become riders: from the opening conscription challenge through bonding with a dragon, there are dozens of opportunities to fail, and any failure when attempting to become a rider equals death.  In addition to the general peril of the tasks at hand, there is also a ruthlessness among the members of the War College. Fewer classmates means better opportunities to bond a dragon, and so the murder of fellow classmates, while perhaps not encouraged, is certainly allowed, making every waking moment one filled with potential death. Yarros creates an interesting caste within the college of students who carry "rebellion relics". They are the children of adults involved in a rebellious uprising six years prior. All of the adults were executed, and the children were only spared execution as well by being forced into conscription as riders. As a result, they all tend to possess a brooding darkness -- you could think of them as the "Slytherin" of Basgiath. To further complicate things for Violet, those children of the rebels all intensely hate her because Violet's mother was responsible for ordering their parents' execution.  The novel is packed with a ton of genre-bending elements. There is the basic plot -- Violet's unlikely journey through her first year at Basgiath War College -- which stirred up memories of one of my all-time favorite books, Pat Conroy's The Lords of Discipline, based on Conroy's first year at The Citadel military college. There are dragons and dragon riders, which of course evokes memories of plenty of fantasy novels, with Anne McCaffrey's Dragonriders of Pern series top of mind. And then there's some romance, and a potential love triangle, which starts out feeling like something from a YA novel, but ends up a lot more R-rated and steamy, and more akin to what you might find in a novel with Fabio on the cover. Add to this a nuanced backstory and some misdirection on who the reader should trust and believe, and Fourth Wing truly has something for everyone.  There is depth to the story and characters, which elevates the story and I'm sure plays a big role in the stellar reviews. Yarros handles relationships well, whether it's the strained relationship between Violet and her mother, the love between Violet and her sister, or the friendships Violet forges with her classmates. The romance is the romance; honestly I could have done without it, and while it was almost humorous at times, it works for what it is meant to be. Yarros also does a standout job of presenting how her characters handle loss. Whether it's grieving the loss of family members or their classmates, there is an undercurrent of sadness and longing that affects many of the characters and hardens them to the task at hand. Despite the intensity of their training, Yarros does a pretty good job reminding us that they're only in their early twenties and still figuring out a lot of life.  I suspect a lot of the hype and enjoyment of the book is related to how Yarros turns a straightforward "year 1 as a student story" into something more. I can't help but compare that to the Harry Potter books (except, of course, Harry never had hot magical sex with Ginny Weasley -- at least not within the pages of any of the books!). Those novels changed significantly for me with the third book in the series, The Prisoner of Azkaban. Where books 1 and 2 were decent and straightforward YA novels, The Prisoner of Azkaban took the story to a more nuanced and mature level. Yarros does the same thing here, but all within the pages of a single book. I get why people are so drawn to the story.  Overall, it's a winner. It's fun, and while it feels derivative of several other novels, it also combines those stories and plots in its own unique way. Book 2, Iron Flame, is already set for release this November (I've already ordered my copy!), and so if you fall in love with the characters, you'll have the opportunity to spend more time with them before long (well, at least with those who survive Fourth Wing). It's a compelling read and like the other 40,000+ readers who have this trending at almost 5 stars, I don't think you'll be disappointed.
Amazing Book! Oh, look! Someone else is in love with Fourth Wing!! 🤗 and I truly am! It’s been a long while since I’ve read fantasy books and this book brought me back to my young adult years. I am in awe of Yarros’ imagination!  “A dragon without its rider is a tragedy. A rider without their dragon is dead.”  Read if you enjoy: - A merge of worlds from Eragon, Harry Potter, Divergent, and Hunger Games, and more. - Enemies to lovers 🖤 - Magic 🪄 - DRAGONS 🐉 - Slow burn and then spice! 🌶️ (3/5) - Banter!!!! 😜  I know this book is overhyped but darn did it live up to the expectations. Unfortunately, the book has sold out everywhere and I couldn’t get my hands on it but thanks to @scribd I was able to immerse fully into this world through narration by Rebbeca Soler and Teddy Hamilton. They did a great job!  The book begins with our main character, Violet, as she goes from training to be in the scribe quadrant to being forcetold by her mother, general Sorrengail, to join the rider's quadrant. In her fragile state, this seemed like a crazy realization. That is until she begins to prove to herself that she is capable of so much more.  I loved the development of this story, the side characters, Xaden, and the dragons! Violet demonstrated such growth throughout the story, being pushed to her limits and coming through every single time. The banter and the angst between her and Xaden had me eating the pages haha. His support and acts of gesture were masked under his painful past and I loved seeing the layers coming apart.  "Tell me what you're thinking?" "I was thinking you are exactly as I predicted the first time you took me in my room." "Oh yeah? And what exactly was that?" "A very dangerous addiction.”  Also… what a cliffhanger!! 🤯 Cannot wait till November! Book 2 has been automatically preordered.  I’ll be hyping this one up just like everyone else. GO READ IT!  PS. Also… can someone pick this up and make a movie about it!! This needs to be done!
Why This Book is NOT Overrated You've seen the TikToks, watched the Insta reels, and you've come here considering purchasing this fantasy book of the year. You have slight trust issues when it comes to the hype it receives on social media, because you have perhaps also seen people call this book overrated and wonder how in the world it has gained so much traction... does this sound like you? Read on. And, if it doesn't, read on anyways since you've made it this far my friend.  Some of the common complaints are: the world isn't crazy intricate, the characters aren't overly complex, the plot isn't exactly groundbreaking... Believe it or not, i think all of that plays a part into exactly WHY it has been so successful.  Rebecca Yarros has struck the balance between interesting and immersive. Her writing makes the step from reality into her creation absolutely seamless. And when it's time to put the book down? That world and those characters stay with you beyond the pages. That is incredibly difficult to do as a writer.  On top of that, the characters are very balanced in strengths and flaws, the twists and turns aren't overly predictable nor are they unbelievable, there are DRAGONS, the action to romance ratio is preferable, the world isn't so developed that it is intimidating, and, again, there are dragons  Sure, it isn't as elaborate as Tolkien and there are nods to elements found in other popular fantasies and fictions; but the world concept is just epic enough to build on and expand and leave us wondering, AND just simple enough to make it so easy to envision, comprehend, and consume.  I guess my main point is this: sometimes readers think a fantasy has to be absolutely groundbreaking to be worthwhile, and that simply is not the case. The fact of the matter is that most plots follow the hero formula, then sprinkle in their own magical elements and twists - and other plots break all the rules; but unless the WRITING is such a way that readers are so naturally and willingly drawn into the author's world, the rest simply doesn't matter as much in the long run. Fourth Wing nails the writing. Rebecca nails the writing. Buy the book.
Captivating Fourth Wing - Rebecca Yarros  My Review: My Rating: ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Spice: 🌶🌶🌶 Pages: 498 Genre: Fantasy Tropes: Enemies To Lovers Overcoming Adversity  There are no words. I’m speechless! This book is perfection. I could not put it down. November can’t get here quick enough. This book creates a world I do not want to leave. You fall in love with the characters and with the dragons!  Violet Sorrengail - daughter of the commanding general who suffers with brittle bones and weak ligaments is forced by her mother to enter the riders quadrant at the war college instead of the scribes quadrant. Being of small stature she’s already at a deficit. But what she lacks in Braun and stature she makes up for in brains. And of course falls in love with the one person her sister warned her to stay away from.  Xaden Riorson - Third year wing leader. Son of a traitor who led a rebellion resulting in all rebels put to death and their children tattooed and forced into foster homes and when old enough into rider quadrant. He is the most feared and gifted of all the riders.  Tairn- the huge black dragon who chose Violet to be his rider.  Andarna - the small golden young dragon  Both Tairn and Andarna choose to bond with Violet as their rider. Which makes her the only cadet bonded to two dragons.  Sgaeyl - Is a blue dragon who chose and bonded to Xaden his first year.  Tairn and Sgaeyl are also a mated pair of dragons. They can’t be away from each other for over three days. Because the dragons are mated that makes their riders bonded also.  As the book lays out the history and groundwork we learn the powers that be are corrupt and that there is lots hidden.  You’ll have to read the book to find out more! This is one book I will reread. I loved it that much! My favorite read of 2023 so far!  #booktok #bookstagram #books #booklover #bookrecommendations #book #bookstagrammer #bookish #reading #bookworm #booknerd #readersofinstagram #bookreview #bookaddict #bookshelf #fourthwing #bookcommunity #read #bibliophile #booksofinstagram #bookblogger #romance #fantasy #reader #romancebooks #kusteamyreads #rebeccayarros
grand daughter loves it Perfect little book to ahow how much they care
I love the feel of the cover. I bought this for a first time daddy for Father’s Day. I’m super excited to give this to him.
Cute Book! My kids will be filling this in and giving it to their dad instead of a card for Father's Day! I'm sure he's going to love it
A great memory piece. Got this for my 4 year old to give to his daddy for Christmas. I asked him everything and filled in the blanks for him. I didn't know it needed actual pictures to go in it though so he had to give it to him with none in it because we didn't have time to have any printed off before Christmas because it was a last minute find. No big deal really but I don't recall it saying anything about that in the description. Wish I had known. My boyfriend loved it and it will definitely be a treasure he will love forever. It's going to be even better once I get the photos put in.
Cute book! Super cute little book, and a great idea! It is a little on the flimsy side unfortunately. There are a few too many blank pages (for drawings/photos) in my opinion! It takes away from the quality of the book a little. I’ll give my child a month or so to fill it out because it would be a chore otherwise 😆.
Great for fathers day Very nice book for child. Has prompts for writing and draw in.
Perfect for dad/printing issue in mine Mine came with pages from another like kids book in the middle and I had to take them all out which made the book look very empty
Very nice But there's a lot of blank pages.
Very thin paper When you glue the pictures in it literally just seeks to the next page The pages are super thin even washable markers bleed into the next page so you can't really decorate the pages very disappointed
Father’s Day Gift Such a cute book. It’s a lot to fill out, but still sweet. Great Father’s Day gift or birthday gift.
"Mastering the Game of Power: A Captivating Journey Through 'The 48 Laws of Power' by Robert Greene" "The 48 Laws of Power" by Robert Greene is a compelling and thought-provoking book that delves into the dynamics of power and influence in various aspects of life. Here's my review:  Robert Greene's "The 48 Laws of Power" is a fascinating exploration of the strategies, tactics, and principles that underlie the acquisition and maintenance of power. Drawing from historical examples, anecdotes, and timeless wisdom, Greene presents 48 laws that illuminate the intricate dynamics of power dynamics in relationships, politics, business, and personal interactions.  One of the strengths of the book is its rich and diverse range of historical and contemporary examples, which illustrate each law in action. Greene's storytelling prowess brings these laws to life, making them relatable and memorable for readers. Additionally, the concise and accessible writing style makes the book engaging and easy to digest, despite its dense subject matter.  Each law is accompanied by practical insights and advice on how to apply it in various contexts, whether in navigating office politics, negotiating deals, or managing interpersonal relationships. While some laws may seem Machiavellian or morally ambiguous, Greene emphasizes the importance of understanding power dynamics for both self-protection and achieving one's goals.  However, it's essential for readers to approach the book with critical thinking and discernment, as blindly adhering to the laws without considering ethical implications can lead to harmful outcomes. Greene himself acknowledges the potential for misuse of power and encourages readers to use the laws responsibly and ethically.  Overall, "The 48 Laws of Power" is a compelling and illuminating read that offers valuable insights into human behavior, social dynamics, and the nature of power. Whether you're a business leader, aspiring entrepreneur, or curious individual seeking to understand the world of power and influence, this book provides a wealth of knowledge and wisdom to ponder and apply in your own life.  I highly recommend "The 48 Laws of Power" to anyone interested in psychology, sociology, leadership, or personal development. It's a timeless classic that continues to resonate with readers worldwide, offering timeless lessons on navigating the complexities of power in today's world.
Use the book for good, not for evil Alright, folks, if you're looking to become the puppet master of your own universe, then "48 Laws of Power" is your new best friend. This book is like a cheat sheet for Machiavelli himself. Every page turns you a little less into Mr. Nice Guy and a bit more into a strategic mastermind, or at least that’s the plan.  I mean, these laws aren’t just guidelines, they're the ultimate playbook for power moves that would make even a Bond villain go, "Oh, that's a bit much, isn’t it?" Want to outshine your boss without getting fired? There’s a law for that. Plotting to take over the world? There’s probably sixteen laws for that.  But be warned, it's not for the faint of heart. You might start reading as a harmless sheep and end up a sly fox with a side gig in manipulation. Use with caution, or you might just end up ruling everything around you. And remember, if you suddenly start having fewer friends, well, you're probably doing it right!
**A Masterclass in Strategy and Influence** "The 48 Laws of Power" is an absolute masterclass in strategy, influence, and human behaviour. Robert Greene has meticulously crafted a compelling guide that draws from historical examples and timeless wisdom. Each law is presented with fascinating anecdotes, making the book both educational and highly engaging. Whether you're looking to navigate complex social dynamics or gain a deeper understanding of power structures, this book is indispensable. It's thought-provoking, insightful, and has genuinely transformed my perspective on power and influence. Highly recommended for anyone looking to master the art of strategic thinking and personal empowerment!
Worth the extra Not only is the presentation great (looks like a Bible) but the paging opposite of the spine create an image of the author’s face and Machiavelli. This book has subtle add-ons you won’t catch unless listening to the original audio version, as well as reversals as to how you can flip these laws on their heads. I recommend this to those new and returning to the book as this opens insight that surely could be missed upon even a couple readings.
DANGER: read at your own risk there seems to be a lot of love and hate surrounding this book, so if you are curious but unsure, this review should help you decide whether or not to buy the book, and how it will impact you  First, to understand the 48 laws of power, you must know two key ideas 1. you CAN NOT escape the power game. thinking you can "not participate" is as foolish as thinking that you could somehow escape gravity or make the sun stand still. Robert Greene explains why in the intro with some excellent examples 2. the 48 laws of power are neither good nor evil; they are just LAWS. If someone pushed a man off a cliff would you blame gravity for for his demise? This is the mindset you must adopt in order to learn a lot from this book.  Things I Liked - NEW PARADIGM after reading the 48 laws, you will never see the world the same way again. once you understand some of these laws you will see many underlying currents and motives you did not see before. - INCREASES POWER one of the main reasons to buy the book. you wil become exponentially more powerfull by knowing and understanding these laws -CRYSTAL CLEAR every law is clearly outlined with "transgression" of the law, "observance" of the law, keys to power, and a "reversal" -GREAT STORIES the 48 laws are packed with mindblowing and sometimes humorous stories of people in history practicing these laws. this is helpful as some of the concepts are quite abstract.  What I didn't like  -RISKY an old proverb says " A man who plays with snakes will eventually be bitten". If you begin to use the 48 Laws improperly, you could get yourself in some dangerous situations, lose friends, piss off a lot a people, and destroy relationships - REQUIRES DISCERNMENT if you you are looking for a highly concrete book that the says "do xyz and you will accomplish vyx" look elsewhere. the Laws require good judgement and and and prospecting nature to practice and apply -NOT FOR EVERYONE If you are aghast at the idea of manipulation and deceit then read with caution.  OVERALL: If you want to have more power or a better understanding of why different situations turn out the the way they do, you should definitely read the 48 laws of power by Robert Greene. If you want to be naive, easily manipulated, weak, you should ignore this book and go watch some netfilx. Thanks for reading
Very interesting book. I really appreciated how he laid it out. List of laws. One law = one chapter. Great examples and quotes from other cultures and centuries. So some great history in here. First time with this author - so started listening to him on YouTube as well. High recommend.
The 48 laws of power It’s a great book, I always wanted to read it, the book was delivered in a good condition, it came fast and it’s really big, it’s a good option if you are into to buy this book.
Good read Love this book not a book you read front to back. Even tho you can. I read by whatever is going on in my life.
How to Understand a Narcisisist’s Mind I had heard of this book online. As I am recovering from a narcissisitic abusive relationship I wanted to better understand exactly the incidious ways a mind works and this book goes into detail. The levels of manipulation that someone who needs and wants to control others is mind-boggling. I recommend this book, but I also want you to be aware that it may be triggering if you suffer from mental and emotional abuse.
Awesome Got the book yesterday, and read the first three laws, and already this book is phenomenal! The examples given after each law help provide insight of the law and what to do and not do. Plus now in red on some pages ate a nice add on.
What This Comedian Said Will Make You Laugh Hysterically In this book Bill Maher skewers both the Cult of Trump and the Church of the Woke. He addresses what he calls Zombie Lies, nonsense that refuses to die no matter how often it is debunked. He addresses the urgency to address climate change and our failure to do so. He makes fun of the sanctimonious hypocrisy in show business, media and society, the racket our universities have turned into, cancel culture, the new attacks on free speech, and he addresses the problems with the Republican party as well as the Democratic party. He brings up a lot of important points that we typically avoid talking about, or can’t even talk honestly about without being shamed, all while adding compelling insights. In the last chapter he has an important message for all of us.  In the past I did not always agree with Bill Maher, especially the period when I was a staunch Republican (centrist now), and I also don’t agree with a lot of aspects of his lifestyle, but I’ve always found him to be funny and smart. I laughed out loud on every page. In fact, I do not recommend that you read this book in public places. People may think you are crazy for sitting somewhere and continuously chuckling to yourself, or mistake you for a Hyena, depending on how your laughter sounds like. I also found that I agreed with almost everything he said. There were a few things I did not agree with him on, but I forgive him for being wrong a few times. He made me laugh more than I have laughed in a long time, while also making me think. This book will anger some people, but before you get too upset about something, read the whole book and try to enjoy the parts that entertain you. I think they exist almost regardless of who you are.  I highly recommend this book to everyone with a sense of humor.
A book that’s hard to put down I’ve loved Bill’s show Real Time for years and always look forward to watching it Friday night for the great conversations with smart people and Bill’s very funny commentary. He’s done a wonderful job putting this book together and it’s hard to put down with so many deep and funny insights into human idiocy. I think when I’m done, I’ll start again at the beginning. Here’s one gem I just read:  “Did you ever wonder, for example, why shaving needs to keep reinventing itself? Men used to shave with a sharp rock. Then there was the straight razor. The single-blade razor, the double-blade razor, the three-blade razor and now the Quattro. Let me tell you something—if you’ve got something on your face that doesn’t come off after three blades, that’s not a whisker, that’s a tumor.”  We love you, Bill.
A well organized trove of Bill's sensible, fact based humor. I don't always agree with Bill Maher, but I am a fan. The thing I do whole heartedly agree with him is that open dialogue in this country is greatly needed. We all need to get out of our echo chambers and try to empathize with "the other side". The majority of Americans are not binary when it comes to politics.  This book is a reflection of his humor, wit, and often his frustration with the lack of common sense in this country. There is enough in this book to both entertain and piss off those one the left and the right. Yes, it leans left in a "classical liberal" sense, but Bill will just as soon call out the left which seems to have lost all common sense over the past 8 years. For sensible people, this book great comedic entertainment based in reality.  It's very well organized and an easy read. Something you can pick up and flip through for a few laughs, or read cover to cover. Bill seems to be very meticulous with his work (Club Random aside) and it shows in this book. Highly entertaining and humorous, while thoughtful and critical when called for.
Resubmission I gave a carefully nuanced review of Maher's book with the above number of stars, and it was rejected because of some violation of the submission rules. I cannot find anything in that review which does not adhere to the list of prohibitions I was provided. In fact, his book seems to violate many of them. So, I will be as bland as possible and state that readers who may have a Maga cap or a Hamas flag in their closets should avoid this book to prevent unnecessary blood pressure elevations, since Maher throws bricks at both extremes of the political spectrum. Many of his commonsense observations strike home and a few laughs will be discovered along the way.
Bill Maher is always full of interesting insight I really like Bill Maher and watch his show, Real Time. When his book was announced. I pre-ordered it. If you like Bill Maher, you will like this book. He tells it as he sees it. His insights are bold and sometimes shocking. I agree with much of what he writes about but not all. It is a good read with short exerts in each chapter. You will enjoy this book.
I wish I could get my money back! I watch Maher's program each Friday it's on. This book exposes Bill for who he is: a guy who looks at the Democrats through rose colored glasses while seeing Republicans through opaque cataract lenses. Frankly, he has his head so far up his ass that he apparently has eaten the part of his brain that is responsible for rational thinking. If Democrats haven't paid Bill for this propaganda, well, Mr Maher, they owe you money! Please do yourself a favor and read something interesting, and don't waste your precious time and money on this book.
What we need right now You ever look around and think to yourself… what happened to the US in USA? Half the cars with an American flag on them are no longer red white and blue.. they have some type of symbolism.. a thin blue line… all black out.. covered in skulls… there’s not a great time to go back to or to go make great again… most of US just want decent food, fair wages, affordable housing and not to be lied to. This book is so comforting.. bill isn’t saying the quiet parts out loud he shouting them.. reminding everyone that between the left and the right there’s a center and we just want common sense to be common.
Snowflakes on both the left and right need not bother. Everyone else: Enjoy! I hesitate to use the pejorative snowflake as it is usually used by the right against the left and I identify with the left but there seems to be a concerted effort primarily coming from sad, petty, vindictive and narrow minded individuals on the far left to deliberately sabotage the rating of this book from people who obviously didn't even read it. Do I agree with everything Maher writes? No. And that's not an issue or problem. Is he inciteful, witty, informative and entertaining? Most definitely!
Common Sense in an age of nonsense. Bill has certainly given us a compilation of his best and most accurate insights to the America/Murica we live in today. Tackling various issues on both sides of the isle politically and socially.  The humor is unmatched in each paragraph while delivery the truth. I could not put this book down. A must read for any Real Time watcher.
Very much needed! This book is the need of the time. This book is all common sense but unfortunately common sense isn't that common. In the book, Bill goes after both the Republicans and Democrats. The book is a must read for everyone. I will recommend it!
Great Father's Day gift that keeps giving to kids, grandkinds and more I purchased this for my Dad for part of his Father's Day gift. I want to know more about him and I want to be able to pass this down from generation to generation. My parents are getting older and I think this is a sweet gift for not only him to walk down memory lane but for us in the future to learn so much more!
Better than expected Nice little gift that will be treasured. People made reviews saying the printing is bad or off but I have no issues.
Nice father's day gift Mom asked to order this for my grandpa wince we don't know too much about him and now that we're opening up more and building our relationships we really want to have a book to look back on his life and his wisdoms
Absolutely love! This is so thoughtful to get your dad for Father’s Day. It brings such a nice feeling to know it’s something I can benefit from by having it when my dad fills it out.
Great idea! Pages are a bit thin. Will probably use the book for the questions and answer on a computer.
Short but excited ! This book is not lengthy but I am so excited to give it to my dad for Father’s Day!
Looks good Decent little book gonna give it to my dad for Father's day, thumbing through it has a lot of deep questions
Wow Thank you.
AWESOME Love this
He loved it what truly sets this journal apart is its guided prompts. Each page has a different question or topic for reflection, making it easy to capture important moments and memories. The prompts cover a wide range of topics
Love this Bought this for my dad. Had a great conversation right after I gave it to him, while he was thumbing through. I am really looking forward to getting it back!
My dad loved it, of course! Got this for my dad for his birthday in January. Always try to get him something special since his birthday is so close to Christmas I’ve sentimental and so is he so I was excited to see what he thought of this gift. Turns out he absolutely loves it and is super excited to spend time Writing in it. He said it brings back long lost memories already!
My dad loved it I initially got this book because I wanted my dad to have a great Father's Day gift, and he's actively writing in it now, about his life. I love it and I recommend it to anybody who really wants to know their parents life story.
Dad, I Want to Hear Your Story putting things together so the kids and grandkids can understand our life story.
12/10 recommend It’s such a sweet concept, and allows you to get to know your partner as well!
Great for  capturing memories I bought this book as a retirement gift to my dad. I lost my mom about 4 years ago and came across this book. I thought to myself, I really wish I had found this book and giving it to my mom when she was alive. then it dawned on me that it would be a great idea to give one to my dad. it was the best gift for the man who has everything. something that makes him think back on the past while appreciating the future and still helping him feel like he's leaving his mark for the years ahead. Great thought-provoking questions and neatly organized to make it easy to fill out.
Really sweet book would be even better if my dad actually used it
Must buy for your Dad!! Must buy these books for your parents! I have been on my own since age 16 when my parents left for the Middle East and lived overseas 19 years. And I honestly don't know a whole lot about my parents or their history. My dad is now 86 (this is my stepdad) and my mom is 84. I bought one book for each and my dad has told me he has already started completing it. They live in the Northwest and I'm in Washington, DC and they won't let the kids come home to visit because of the Coronavirus so I can't be there to fill this book out asking him questions and really didn't expect him to complete it but apparently he is and I am so thrilled! I can't wait to get it back from him and my mom. For $9, This book is fun for my dad to fill out with my mom as they reminisce over the questions and it will be something I will treasure for the rest of my days. When I receive it I'm going to print photocopy every page to send a set to my brothers and sister. On Facebook they are promoting something called my story for about a $100. This is fabulous and I highly recommend you buy it as well and perhaps if you are a new dad or a new mom, buy the books yourself so that you can pass this information on to your own children as they grow up, because we never know what tomorrow will bring.
Excellent book This is a guided book for dad to write about his life in order to leave it for his children. Great questions & spaces to answer on each page. Wish it was hardback.
Wonderful, Thoughtful gift I was so happy I came across this book. Wonderful idea for Christmas/Father's Day. I'm sure I will learn so much about my dad. He loved it too.
GET IT NOW I dunno why everyone is complaining about the materials. These days you gotta act fast and do what you can to help others. Maybe she will put money well made from these and write 2 more books to help us! These are great! Very helpful. So much to learn. Very easy to read and understand! I love it. Do I wish they were hardcover sometimes? Yes, only because I have kids and if anything spills or gets rained on, guess I’m getting another lol. But I’ll take what I can get when it comes to knowledge and getting away from fda approved crap. Since getting this book, I have harvested 4 different types of weeds that I had no idea were good for anything. Only because you hear more about the common dandelions or clovers. I have mugwort, purple dead nettle, and cleavers ! This is awesome. Thank you to the author. You’re amazing! And now people are pushing your book all over TikTok lol. You’ve been in my Amazon cart for 2 yrs. Only because everyone complained about on herb you had messed up on. I certainly would want a little mercy. Also, that’s why you get a couple books to compare and research 😏 Thanks so much!
Extremely informative 👏 Wow! What an outstanding and interesting book. I'm not all the way through it but this is amazing! There is literally an herb, plant, mineral or natural resource for everything shy of brain surgury!!! Everything from mother Earth has a purpose and this book outlines the benefits of utilizing them AND illustrates them in great detail. I'm not a fan of big pharma and I can't believe we pay out the rear when all along our health was in our own backyard. Must have knowledge if you don't trust what prescriptions you're putting in your body. 10 stars easy!!!
Incredible I love love love this book. I’ve been obsessed with it lately and carry it everywhere with me. I love how it focuses on plants that are native and wild to North America. I’ve become so much more aware of the “weeds” everywhere and love thinking of how they are here to help us. I love the author as well, I saw her on Alone and loved her then. Had no idea she came out with a book! So grateful! Also, this book really focuses on auto immune help! So lots of virus, microbial, skin, DIABETES, anxiety help!! This is one of my new favorites and it is completely worth the extra money.
Worth the money I kept seeing this pop up on my TikTok and decided to get it. Thinking the way the world is today and me and my family could benefit from this, I got it and came fast in the mail. Looked at it and I am amazed at how much information is in there. So worth it. Next thing you have to ask your self is how important is it to you? Great information.
It’s a very resourceful book It’s a good resource book
Worth the purchase To stay clear of chemicals and keep my health; I purchased this book for natural remedies for minor issues. I received that and so much more. This book has the options for just about anything. From cancer to STDs to ED for men. I have only just received it looked through it and started making a list of all the herbs I currently have and the ones I need to pick up. I am excited to get started with the most pressing like headaches and current back/knee pain. Thank you so much for this information.
This is a classic! If you have any kind of yard, it would be wise to use a book like this to start planting some things you like to eat and herbs that are good for tonics. After ordering the book I signed up for daily emails with reminders of the benefits of all the good stuff growing around us. Makes a wonderful gift :-)
Informative! Being new to the world of herbal remedies, I’m finding this book easy to follow, research and learn from! I can cross reference any herb from its uses to identifying what it looks like in the wild which is so helpful to me. I am excited to put my learning to use!
Great book, great customer service The book speaks for itself. There is endless amounts of useful information. The book came damaged, contacted customer service (not amazon), and they shipped me a brand new book. Extremely happy with the product, and the customer service.
Love, love, love this book! The book was recommended by a friend. I am learning new things, identifying plants around me, and enjoying this book every time I pick it up. Educational and worth every penny! I love, love, love this book!
Informative Book for Alternative Healing Methods Love this book! The book is structured with clarity, dividing its content into various sections that include detailed descriptions of herbs, their medicinal uses, and clear, vibrant photographs for easy identification. One of the standout features of this guide is its practical approach; not only does it describe the herbs, but it also provides instructions on how to prepare remedies at home.  While the book is incredibly informative, it is essential for readers to approach herbal treatment with caution. The authors do advise consulting with healthcare professionals before starting any new treatment, which is a responsible disclaimer. However, some may find the depth of information slightly overwhelming if they are new to herbalism.  Overall, "The Lost Book of Herbal Remedies" is a valuable resource for those interested in expanding their knowledge of natural healing practices. It encourages a connection with nature and empowers readers with the knowledge to harness the earth’s healing properties. This book is highly recommended for anyone curious about herbal remedies or seeking alternative healing methods.
Great information Very seldom do I buy any products from FB or IG. Certainly am glad that I purchased this book. Very detailed information and the pictures are extremely helpful.
Good book If you are interested in making your own herbal remedies this book is for you. Great information and a good read. You would be surprised at what’s growing around your house that can help you.
This book is amazing! Love this book! I just sent one to my sister it has so much information on it,, on everything!! For the price it is a fantastic resource! Everyone should have one!
Very Informative Book Amazing book, so much information. Cool to see an Armenian doctor with 28 years of experience write this book along with their co-writer. This book is a must have. The book everyone should have in their homes. A lot of useful information, things you didn't know are in here. Highly recommend everyone in getting one.
Herbal bible I bought this for my husband. We use all the time to make homemade remedies or to find solutions for when we are sick or in pain. Highly recommend this book!
my mother loves it!! my mom has recently gotten into herbal medicine and asked for this for mothers day. she loves it and is already on her way to trying some of the remedies listed!
Favorite go to Book There are so many things that I am learning from this book. I’ve started gardening making my own oils and salves. I’m so glad I came across this book.
Absolute favorite! This book helps you understand how amazing herbs and other natural remedies can help with so many issues.
It’s very helpful wen you know the use of plants. I like this book cause it’s given me knowledge about a lots of plants and they use to cure, or prevent sickness.
Key to a healthy you It explains plants and medicine connections. This book is better than any doctor. Or current medicine is based on oil, but as humans we are closer to a plant base. Excellent book and information.
So much useful information I highly recommend it!! Shockingly, more than half of the weeds I normally pull have Medicinal uses. Very easy to understand and packed with useful information Claudi Davis is the author and seller, she is very prompt at answering questions you may have. I think this book would make an excellent gift and one should be in every household.
Farm life This book is loaded with things that my great grandma told me about and I have forgotten. Very well written would highly recommend.
Love ancient remedies I like that it shows pictures of the herbs, and plants, and in color. The size is a bit large, but it’s ok. I love the book. I’m Hispanic and loved about the medicines my grandmother taught me. I still use some of them.
The book I didn't know I needed I bought this book on a whim, and I have found many different remedies and treatments that I can try. I have been using devil's claw for chronic pain, as suggested in the book and I have high hopes for it to work. This book covers hundreds of different health problems and conditions, there is something for everyone in this book, even for general wellness.
Excellent! Great book! Well printed. Well worth the value. The seller was particularly professional in dealing with an issue I had.
Great book I wanted to learn some of the home remedies. Has great pictures of plants. I would love to find someone who teaches how to identify plants.
Great book! This is a must book. This book actually teaches you how to make your own plant based and herbal medicine. I'm already going to start making batches just to have in case of an emergency. Now days it's especially crucial
Must have If you are like me and need to do your own thing off the land here you go great book
Great book to have!!!! Not sure why everyone doesn’t have a copy of this book !!
Good book Funny and worth buying
Perfect for the dad that has everything The Dad Joke Book is a laugh-out-loud collection of cheesy humor that delivers groans and laughter in equal measure. Filled with timeless classics and fresh twists, it's an ideal family-friendly read suitable for all ages. Perfect as a light and entertaining gift for dads or anyone in need of a good chuckle. Embrace the simplicity and let the laughter flow with this delightful compilation of dad jokes.
Great gift....with a consequence! Got this for boyfriends dad...he loved it! Unfortunately, the family is paying the price as the dad jokes don't stop coming.. the good thing is it is not your stereotypical dad jokes, so they are definitely funny! but again dad jokes...all the time.... be prepared. Cringy..
Love this book! I like Dad jokes. This book has lots of eye rolling, groan inducing, and laughter inducing jokes for everyone. Some of the jokes I had to think about to get but overall I found this book great for those Dad joke moments.
He loved it... I bought this for my husband and he loves it...
Keep this from your Grandchildren and spring them on them one at a time Good book with very few that I didn't get.
Cute Super cute gift for dad.
Perfect dad joke book! Got this for my son in law, he’s going to be a new dad and can’t wait to tell all the dad jokes!
Such Funny, Very Dad - WOW As a big "dad" guy, my boss loved all the dad jokes in the book. As the people who have to listen to said jokes over the intercom every day during morning announcements, my staff and students now hate me for buying this. Thanks for the ammunition!
My dad loves this book I got this for my dad for Father’s Day and he likes it and finds the book funny. His dad jokes have gotten a lot better now. However I do think this is a gift that will be used frequently the first couple of weeks then forgotten about. I think my dad doesn’t look at the book anymore.
Yeap dad jokes Corny, but funny.....you don't have to be a dad to enjoy them...or cringe.
Dad joke battle secret weapon I purchased this for my husband so that he can be prepared for showdowns with my dad on the dad joke battlefield. My dad is in IT and works from home, so he has a lot of free time to research new dad jokes. We visit multiple times a week and he is usually waiting at the door to drop his first punchline (although many will follow for the next few hours). As their most frequent guests, my mom is glad for someone else to fall victim to the endless jests so we endure for her. My husband enjoys the laughs and rebuts with his own one liners and knock knock jokes, so this book was a welcomed reload of ammunition for battles to come. Highly recommend for any new dads or even seasoned father figures who need new material.
Good laughs Great joke book
Gag gift stocking stuffer Brother loved it!
gift for boss i got this as a gift for my boss bc he’s always telling dad jokes. it made him chuckle.
Why did this guy buy this book? Because I had $7 in miles points on one of my CC!  I am not disappointed. There are tons of dad jokes with a few illustrations Good and safe for any age. If you’re the “Dad Jokes? More like Rad Jokes!” Type of person. This book is for you. And hey, if you hate it, it’s only $6
Right next to the toilet just like it says IT'S A WONDERFUL HUSBAND DAD GIFT 🎁💝
I got jokes now Thanks to this book i am now the funniest dad at the party or as my wife would say the most embarrassing dad because of my jokes.
The best cheesy jokes If you want the best cheesy lame jokes, this is the book. The kids and dad love it. The jokes are truly dad jokes
Perfect for every new dad! I bought this for my friend who just welcomed a baby! He is a cheesy dude and absolutely loved it! He loved it so much that he spent at least 4 hrs telling us different jokes from the book. I would recommend this book to anyone who is a cornball!
“To the stars who listen—and the dreams that are answered.” “Hello, Feyre darling,” he purred.  I forgot how utterly in love with A Court of Mist and Fury I am. A stunning story paired with the loveliest slow burn and a charming enemies to friends to lovers progression.  “You are my salvation, Feyre.”  Rhysand. He is, just, everything. Honestly a top tier book boyfriend. An alluring bad-boy paired with typical arrogance and a clever mind. His outward elegance and beauty are obvious but his internal beauty is what truly makes Rhys stand out. His selflessness towards his court and Feyre, the carefully crafted mask he shows everyone else, and the intensity that he cares and loves. Rhysand isn't perfect, not even close, but he really stole the show in this story.  “You think I don’t know how stories get written—how this story will be written?” Rhys put his hands on his chest, his face more open, more anguished than I’d seen it. “I am the dark lord, who stole away the bride of spring. I am a demon, and a nightmare, and I will meet a bad end. He is the golden prince—the hero who will get to keep you as his reward for not dying of stupidity and arrogance.”  Feyre spends most of her time in the Night Court, embarking on missions and adjusting to her new immortal life. I was so proud of Feyre and getting herself out the other end. This book is heavy on dealing with the aftermath of trauma from the events under the mountain and my heart really ached for her during the first half of this book. She grew an incredible amount and it was like coming back up for air watching Feyre, with the help of those who truly care for her, become stronger, more determined, and a dreamer.  “When you spend so long trapped in darkness, you find that the darkness begins to stare back.”  There were so many scenes between these two that will live forever permanently in my mind. ✰ Feyre throwing her shoe at Rhys the first time he brought her to the Night Court 👠 ✰ Their snow fight in the human realm ❄️ ✰ The Court of Nightmares throne scene 🔥 ✰ Their sparring match where he cocooned her with his wings 🦇 ✰ Their flirty note exchanges 🖊️ ✰ THE PAINT SCENE 🎨  “I’m thinking it would be very easy to love you. And easier to call you my friend.”  We were introduced to many new faces in aCoMaF and the most enjoyable were the Inner Circle with a special shout out to the High Lord from the Summer Court. But honestly, the IC are actual squad/family goals. Morrigan, Mor, is as loyal as she is fierce. Amren, I don't know who you really are but your arrogance and sass call to my heart. Cassian, the jokester who can bring a smile to anyone's face. Last but never least, Azriel, you mysterious and slightly stalker ways are like an invisible string to my deepest desires. I cannot express how critical it is in a fantasy series to have complex and dimensional secondary characters that you feel drawn to.  “For him, I had done this-for him I'd gladly wrecked myself and my immortal soul. And now I had an eternity to live with it.”  Finally, I want to discuss the big bad wolf in the room...Tamlin. I understand why he is so hated but I don't hate Tamlin. To be candid, even in the my first read through of this series, I was never really drawn to Tamlin or sold on his and Feyre being endgame. Something just felt off. This book really explored and demonstrated why they aren't good together. But that doesn't mean Tamlin is the villain he is portrayed through the lenses of Feyre and Rhysand. Tamlin also left that mountain with trauma and fear . It is this fear that drove most of Tamlin's action, in particular how he treated Feyre. His fear led him to overcompensate in how he protected Feyre, his need for control after having none, and his ignorance in the trauma that both he and Feyre were drowning in. None of this excuses his behavior but it helps us understand his actions. I think Tamlin has some really hard lessons to learn but if I know SJM, I like to pretend I do , I think Tamlin isn't too far gone that he can't redeem himself.  “That I will bow before no one and nothing but my crown.”  I am going to wrap this up and just say that after reading this series more than a few times, each time feels like a new addition to the experience and I find myself like one of those tiktok's of the bookish girls trying to dive into the physical book because I would love for nothing more than to actually be part of this world.
Compelling continuation of ACOTAR series This is a compelling continuation of A Court of Thorns and Roses. (It is not a standalone and it ends with a number of open questions.) While the subsequent entries in a series can sometimes be disappointing, A Court of Mist and Fury built on and exceeded the first book.  The book begins in the aftermath of Aramantha's sinister dominion. Feyre has been resurrected as an immortal with a human heart that is tortured by the trauma she experienced. Tamlin has reacted to his fear by trying to control his world and Feyre. Rhys is also plagued by memories from Under the Mountain but channels his energy into trying to defend and expand a world in which all people can dream freely. (This is not a love triangle.)  A Court of Mist and Fury focuses on Feyre's journey to healing and empowerment in her new being and her new world. It's also centered on her partnership with Rhys, as he teaches her how to read, trains her to access and use her new powers, and shows her that she can play a vital role in the coming conflict. It's exciting to watch her step out of the shadows and acknowledge the truth of their bond.
The BEST book in the series! Definitely a must read (No spoilers) My friend recommended the ACOTAR series to me because I love a good guilty pleasure romance novel (with a touch of smut). The first book was good, but just didn't scratch the itch. But A Court of Mist and Fury was the real MVP. This book was absolutely amazing in every way and it tied together with the first book beautifully.  So I won't spoil anything, but the romance in this book is just perfection. I love a good will they won't they, and this built up the suspense for a firework climax (no pun intended). I mean, I read this book over a year ago and I still think about it.  It's not just the relationship that makes this book good though. It is well written with a lot of action and drama that keeps you interested cover to cover. I found myself unable to put this book down. If you liked the vividly descriptive action in the first book, this one will not disappoint.  This is high up on the list of my favorite books. Whenever I hear that someone is starting the ACOTAR series, I tell them that this 2nd book is the reason for reading it. I cannot stress that enough. The other books are fine, but this one is the masterpiece of the series.  Please read it! If you were underwhelmed by the first book, I PROMISE this one will make it all worth it. I HIGHLY recommend.  Hope this helps!
Wow I said in my review for the first book that it seemed unoriginal and the romance was a bit hollow. And that’s still true. And I don’t know if this author realized the weakness in her first book and built off of that, or if it was all intentional, but— holy subversion Batman— this second book was amazing.  Where the romance in the first book was hollow, the romance in this one was full. I love a vulnerable hero. The balance of vulnerable and powerful in this hero was just magic, and some of those beautiful love scenes will live rent-free in my brain for a while.  I also just admire how she managed to turn a happily-ever-after into a never-mind in so few pages, and launch off from there. It all felt so believable, and I never for one moment questioned the heroine’s choices. Talk about a strong female character.  The whole book from that point on was harrowing and intense and full of love and life, to the point where I actually may need to take a break and read something light and fluffy before moving on to book 3. For the sake of my own heart that can’t take too much more.  10 out of 10 recommend.
Definitely 4 Stars If you liked A Court of Thorns and Roses, then you're going to like this book too. For me, this book is WAY better. (The first was very slow for me. See my review of a Court of Thorns and Roses.)  To me, this is where the overall story started to get good. This book moved a lot faster, and I found it much more interesting. That probably had to do with the fact that you're continuing a character's story, and more characters were introduced. (Though, my favorite side character remains to be Lucien.)  This book expands the world of Prynthian for the reader and there's a lot more action.  I haven't finished this book yet, I'm about 90% done and certain questions I have from when I first started still haven't been answered. This is what will probably make me pick up book 3 and doesn't that make the author very clever?  I give this book a solid 4 stars. For the pacing and overall storyline. For the fact that it made me like Feyre a LITTLE more than I did in the beginning. (I still can't bring myself to really like her.) For the fact of confirming why I was Team Rhys from the very start. Tamlin seems like a good guy, but Rhys stole the show from the first time he was introduced in my opinion.  The Spring Court was beautiful, but the Night Court had DEPTH.  I will be continuing with book 3.  Update: I actually finished the book the same day I wrote the above review. I saw a lot of other readers' reviews with the title: WOW and I echo the sentiments. The moment I was done with this book I immediately dove into book 3. And by the end of this book my opinion of Feyre has changed. I won't say that I love her now, but I definitely like her.  Even if you had a hard time reading book one like I did, reading this book makes up for all the struggle you went through. Book 3 seems to be shaping up to be if not as good, better. (But I'm only 3 or 4 chapters in at this point.)
Beautiful Let me tell you something, I hate rollercoasters but this book took me on an emotional rollercoaster for sure and I loved it!  Fayre has evolved into a powerful, strong female character! At first I was annoyed with her complaining and way of thinking but in this book she definitely shows she can rule!  “So unaware of the true extent of how broken and dark I was inside. How unfit I was to be clothed in white when my hands were so filthy.”  I fell in LOVE with Rhysand. He is the true definition of sacrifice, power, love and leader! He loves and protects with all of his heart and loves his people like no other!!  “She is my mate. And my spy,” I said too quietly. “And she is the High Lady of the Night Court.”  And of ofcourse, I fell in love with the batboys! 🦇✨🌙🌑
I was a survivor, and I was strong. I would not be weak, or helpless again. *Review originally posted on Goodreads*  ❝I was not a pet, not a doll, not an animal. I was a survivor, and I was strong. I would not be weak, or helpless again. I would not, could not be broken. Tamed.❞  A Court of Thorns and Roses was one of the first books I started reading that got me into Fantasy and reviewing books. Way back when this series, the Throne of Glass series, and Sarah J. Maas, herself, wasn't hyped up like there's no tomorrow. It was the first book I've read by Sarah J. Maas and the reason I picked up the Throne of Glass series because I just needed more SJM in my life.  I was satisfied with the way things ended in ACOTAR so when I heard that some "changes" were going to be made in A Court of Mist and Fury, I was a little disappointed. I was NOT a fan of the changes that were made in the Throne of Glass series which was why I haven't picked up Queen of Shadows yet even though the book has been sitting on my shelf since the day it's been released. That's just my opinion. I know some SJM fans are going to start pouncing because they sincerely believe that Sarah could absolutely do no wrong. Don't get me wrong, I LOVE SARAH J. MAAS. She is an outstanding author. I love her writing, her characters, and the world that she brings to life. It was her books that changed my perspective on Young Adult Fantasy, but I honestly wouldn't say that I agree with every direction that SJM takes with her books.  I suppose the questions to ask now are: what was my stance at the end of ACOTAR and how did I perceive the changes that were made after reading ACOMAF?  Let me address the most important aspect of Sarah J. Maas's books, this series, and probably the thing that majority of readers care about the most: THE ROMANCE. Since A Court of Thorns and Roses was a loose retelling of Beauty and the Beast, my ship of course was none other than Tamlin and Feyre. I loved them as individuals and I loved them even more as a couple. AND I loved Rhysand. Just not as a love interest. I felt like Feyre wasn't worthy of the enigma that was Rhysand. But knowing the trend that SJM follows in all of her books, I figured a change in love interests was inevitable. After all, a book isn't written by Sarah J. Maas if there isn't some character butchering and changes in love interests involved.  But after reading A Court of Mist and Fury, I actually found myself accepting the transition in love interests much to my surprise. As much as I wanted Tamlin and Feyre to stay together, I knew it wasn't going to happen. These two people that survived weren't the same people that were Under the Mountain. They're relationship became such a nightmare and so unhealthy. It was two damaged lovers waiting for a disaster to happen.  In the beginning of this series, I understood where Tamlin was coming from and why he was so protective of Feyre. It was for Feyre's own good and nobody wants to lose the people they love and/or care about. But he took it way too far. He became too overbearing to the point where he was holding Feyre back. We all understood the trials and suffering that Feyre had to go through but I feel like people don't acknowledge what Tamlin had to go through as well while they were Under the Mountain. It was nothing close to what Feyre had to go through but Tamlin had to watch the person he loved suffer and die. He couldn't protect her the way he wanted and he didn't fight for her as he knew he very well could have. He was helpless and a coward. I think he realized this, which was why he tried to make up for it afterwards by protecting her now to the point where she's being suffocated. It still doesn't excuse what Tamlin does in this book but he's just another damaged character like Feyre and Rhysand. He's just hurting in different ways and expressing that pain in a way the he views would make up for his shortcomings in the first book. Tamlin loves Feyre, that much is evident. He just loves her too much, and that is the tragedy.  As for Rhysand, all I can say is that I loved him in ACOTAR and I loved him even more in A Court of Mist and Fury. I loved that we finally get a good understanding of Rhys as a character, the secrets he's kept, and the sacrifices he's made for the good of his people and his court. He was everything that Tamlin was not and twice the man and High Lord that Tamlin will ever be. I'm not completely sure if I'm 100% on board with Feyre and Rhysand yet but I love their chemistry, friendship, and the way they just understand and respect one another. I think I would've been head over heels in love with Feyre and Rhys instantly as a couple if ACOTAR never happened and I didn't get so attached to Feyre and Tamlin. But I no longer ship Tamlin/Feyre and I'm slowly, but surely, beginning to fall in love with Rhysand and Feyre little by little.  With romance aside, everything about A Court of Mist and Fury turned out every bit as great as I anticipated a year ago. Sarah J. Maas did not disappoint. I was preparing myself for the worst but instead I got the best. Sarah really knows how to capture her audience with her writing, worldbuilding, and characters that she has created. Of all the new things that were introduced in this book, the new characters of the Night Court were definitely my favorite. I thought the Spring Court was great in ACOTAR with characters like Lucien and Alis but the Night Court was at a whole new level with Cassian, Azriel, Morrigan, and Amren. BADASS is literally an understatement describing these new characters.  Besides Rhysand and Feyre, ACOMAF introduced so many new ships and I can't handle all the perfectness that everyone is. I now ship Mor and Azriel with all of my being, just putting it out there. XD And Cassian and Nesta. And Lucian and Elain. None for you Tamlin.  Overall, I was glad I waited to read A Court of Mist and Fury because as a result, I was able to dive into the story with an open mind about the changes that were going to be made in terms of romance and the direction that Sarah J. Maas was taking the series. Love her or hate her, Sarah can write one hell of a story and is such an outstanding author. Although there were some parts of the book that went by a little slow, I think A Court of Mist and Fury was even better than ACOTAR in more ways than one. Sometimes I find that sequels may suffer "middle book syndrome" but ACOMAF amplifies that momentum knowing that Sarah is preparing to hurtle anticipation and suffering our way for the conclusion of the A Court of Thorns and Roses trilogy.
Hoooooly mother above! I didn't think book 2 could be better...but oh my goodness was I wrong!!!  SPOILERS AHEAD!!  Firstly...Tam is a....something I cant say...and as much as I wanted to love him, I ended up really, REALLY disliking him.  Secondly...Rhys?! What a dream! I fell for him, hard and fast, and was utterly shocked to find out he and Feyre were mates!! What a team they make!  Thirdly...the weaver...anyone else driving while their audible was reading out that creepy scene?! I swear I thought she was going to snatch me from the back seat of my car 😮‍💨  The twists. The turns!! I laughed. I cried. My anxiety shot up more times than my poor watch could keep up with. So, so good and I cannot wait to see what Feyre has in store for the good ol' High Lord of the Spring Court *enter malicious laugh here*
Amazing! Wow this book took way more twists and turns than I honestly expected it to and the ending is absolutely astounding! I loved seeing these characters and delving more deeply into them and the differences between what everyone thinks they know and what’s actually going on. I loved how Feyre developed through this book. How she struggled from the darkness she had to endure at the end of the first book and how she had to rediscover her light and her soul. Although I will say there were a few instances where her righteous indignation seemed a little extreme, but she’s growing not only in herself but also the power she has been unwittingly granted. This book made me love Rhysand even more than I initially thought possible and seeing his world and the people in it. There were so many differences from what people thought and what actually was. Not only do we get to the see The Night Court, but the Summer Court as well and as Feyre becomes more with the power flowing within her we catch glimpses into possibilities of what may come. The ending is a shock and I am so glad I have the next in the series to immediately jump into it. Things are picking up and I am absolutely enthralled in this world and story.
The ending was stunning, as always, but I had character issues. ** Warning: This is NOT a spoiler-free review like I usually write. I won’t give away twists from the very end but I WILL be discussing things that happened throughout the beginning and middle of the book! **  I was pleasantly surprised when I read A COURT OF THORNS AND ROSES last year because going into it, I knew it was a story with a strong fae presence. By this point in time in my reading career, I wasn’t new to fantasy but I was still a bit picky about what sort of fantasy I liked and fae did not fall into that category of selected themes… But knowing how much I loved Sarah’s Throne of Glass series and the fae presence there, I dove into ACOTAR and loved it! It had a bit of a BREAKING DAWN ending so I wasn’t quite sure where the second book would go but naturally I had very, very high hopes for it since I hadn’t been let down by a Maas book yet!  I won’t sugar coat it — it actually took me a really long time to get into the swing of this book. I was enjoying the plot but the beginning felt so incredibly dramatic and I just didn’t feel like things were moving forward. There was a lot of time spent on Feyre’s PTSD from her time Under the Mountain and I absolutely understand and don’t think that her traumatic experience should be just brushed over. I do felt like there was too much time dwelling on it though. ACOMAF isn’t a short book and I think some pages could have been saved and still gotten the point across throughout a few sections in the beginning. If the book were more character-based instead of plot-driven, it might have been more appropriate but the plot really seemed to suffer because of this and this isn’t the first time I felt this way in a Maas book either. I understand that these characters have gone through something that truly does change them but I felt like I was reading about totally different characters when I started ACOMAF. Feyre and Tamlin were just not themselves and I think had ACOTAR ended with a bit more of this shadow or if it had slowly creeped in throughout ACOMAF, it wouldn’t have been as much of a surprise. I just really felt like I was thrown into a totally new environment and it was really hard for me to adjust to, especially since I had read ACOTAR over a year before I got to start ACOMAF.  I continued to have issues with Feyre throughout the book. I don’t know why but she was just really bothering me. Instead of snarky, witty comebacks, I felt like everything with her was taken as an insult and she was constantly being defensive and kind of hated everyone. It was really hard to watch her interact with characters and I started to latch onto new (or new-to-the-spotlight) characters like Rhysand and his gang. It did make me extra thankful for Rhys coming onto the scene and shaking things up, though! The interactions between Feyre and Tamlin were just unbearable and painful to read. Then I ended up on the flip side where although I didn’t want Feyre and Tamlin to still be together, I also felt really weird that Tamlin was almost totally absent from this book. He was there in the beginning and I won’t speak of the ending but this book was straight up about Feyre and Rhysand and it almost felt like a waste that we spent all that time building up a romance between Feyre and Tamlin in ACOTAR to have it totally change. I absolutely love where it went but it’s confusing to understand why the Feyre/Tamlin romance was so important and developed in ACOTAR and why Rhysand wasn’t more of a main character throughout that courtship to really get his foot even more in the door.  I’ve followed the romances in Sarah J. Maas’ books quite well, I think, considering they’re not always simple and straightforward. I know some people who have issues with love triangles or already have their OTPs with the first love interest really have trouble moving with the characters as they fall out of love or move from one interest to realize that their true match is someone else and I feel like I’ve followed along with that fairly easily. I can see where people feel like the romance in ACOMAF is a love triangle and I guess to a certain extent it is, but Feyre also does not have interest in both men at the same time. It is quite complicated though so if you’re sensitive about triangles, you almost definitely won’t like the romance.  I personally loved the development of Rhysand as a love interest, especially once Feyre really started to struggle with Tamlin. I found it telling that at the hardest points in their lives, Feyre and Tamlin drifted apart and just couldn’t find a way to even communicate instead of being able to rely on one another and get through a hard time together. That doesn’t always mean that you shouldn’t be with someone but in the case of story telling, it’s a pretty big sign that the main character isn’t where they should be. I’ve heard this complaint from other Maas readers but this is the first of her books where I really felt like the romance started to take over the book. While I did love the new Rhysand/Feyre development, I felt like there was a lot of back and forth between them before anything major (finally) happened and that could have been cut down to some more meaningful interactions instead of repetitive, similar situations that happened more than a few times throughout the course of the story. Their romance actually is a very important part of the plot so it’s not like I wanted it to be downplayed but I just felt like so many points of the large general story were pushed aside to develop the romantic moments and it started to turn more romance story than epic fantasy — and yes, there are some cheesy romance book-worthy moments. Let’s just say this is NOT A YOUNG ADULT BOOK, friends. There are some very explicit scenes so if you have teens or are directing/teaching teens who are reading this series, you may not want to put this book directly into their hands. (Not that I’m saying censor them but. Ya know. Read it first so you know what you’re giving them.)  The sections where the plot progressed were really quite delightful. Sarah J. Maas is still a master at layering stories and it’s so interesting to see how much of a previous book comes back in a different light in a subsequent book. There were so many moments that the reader is able to recognize from ACOMAF and see from a different character’s perspective or reassess it with more information and it makes the story that much deeper! Once things started to really take off around halfway through and a little thereafter, the book was simply addicting and I couldn’t wait to see where the entire plot of the series was going! Sarah really does have an amazing ability to craft an overall series arc and it’s so fun to watch that develop. The ending positively floored me and it was hard to remember why I had been so frustrated for a while throughout earlier sections of the book. So many things were revealed, actions taken, and trusts betrayed that I just really didn’t know what was coming. The twists and surprises were epic and once again, I was left in utter anticipation of the next book!
i could not put the book down This book is full of passion, adventure and plot twists. The romance build up between Feyre and Rhys is very methodical and intriguing. I also enjoyed the connection between Feyre and the night court, it made the story line so real despite the fantasy of it all. The strengths in character of the night court really gives us something to root for. It was really captivating to see the growth Feyre worked into with their support and the inevitable bond and friendship they created. It was nice to see her in such an empowering environment and find a supportive group she could call family. I really enjoyed reading this book.
Love the world…Dislike Feyre. “𝑾𝒉𝒂𝒕 𝒅𝒐 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒕𝒂𝒕𝒕𝒐𝒐𝒆𝒅 𝒔𝒕𝒂𝒓𝒔 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒎𝒐𝒖𝒏𝒕𝒂𝒊𝒏 𝒐𝒏 𝒚𝒐𝒖𝒓 𝒌𝒏𝒆𝒆𝒔 𝒎𝒆𝒂𝒏?“ “𝑻𝒉𝒂𝒕 𝑰 𝒘𝒊𝒍𝒍 𝒃𝒐𝒘 𝒃𝒆𝒇𝒐𝒓𝒆 𝒏𝒐 𝒐𝒏𝒆 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒏𝒐𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒃𝒖𝒕 𝒎𝒚 𝒄𝒓𝒐𝒘𝒏.”  Title: A Court of Mist and Fury Author: Sarah J Maas Rating: ⭑ ⭑ ⭑ ⭑✩ Spice rating: 🌶️🌶️🌶️ Release: 2020 Genre: Fantasy, Romance, New Adult Format: 📖📱 Length: 624 pages Start: August 30th, 2023 Finish: September 3rd, 2023 Series: A Court of Thorns and Roses Favorite character: Rhysand Would I read again?: Yes!  Thoughts: I don’t like Feyre. That was my mindset when I started the book. Feyre was nothing but selfish in “A Court of Thorns and Rose” and oh, did she make my blood boil. And even in this book, I was like that as well…but that’s an explanation for later. Because I truly enjoyed this story! So much that I have a picture of Velaris as my wallpaper on my phone.  I didn’t want to give Tiktok the credit. I DEFINITELY didn’t want to jump on the bandwagon of this series. But why am I on Etsy about to buy a shirt that says “Wingspan Matters”? Why are there Velaris stickers in my cart? And why is Rhysand so damn irresistible???  I’m doomed. I’m drinking the kool-aid and I don’t even remember it coming into my hand. Oh…god.  In this second book of the series, we continue to follow Feyre after she saves Prythian from that crazy red headed demon woman with blue balls for Tamlin (lol) and she gets to head home with her flower beast man, but realizes that life as the soon-to-be wife of the High Lord of Spring Court is not what she thought it would be. Everyday was boring, soul shattering, depressing, and a prison. But the only freedom she has is that one week of the month with Rhysand at the Night Court. The story progresses as Feyre finds her strength in herself and others, learns not to judge a book by its cover, and that family (even if it’s found) and love (when is deep and true) is worth dying for.  You see there? I spoke highly of the girl! Because GOD DAMN was she killing me all ACOTAR and up to Chapter 34 in ACOMAF. Feyre’s absolute selfishness and denial is so insufferable that I had to put the book down, walk away, and scream into a pillow. She is a walking billboard for “pity parties” and “misery loves company”. She is manipulative and honestly a liability. She only cares about herself and what others can do to benefit her. She doesn’t want to understand people but wants people to understand her. Pot meet Kettle.  I don’t like Feyre. I AM VERY ANTI FEYRE.  But holy smoke, am I loving her journey! The world building and character development is absolutely amazing. Maas knows how to write a book! I literally am transported to this world when I read like I’m watching a movie on a big screen. I have fallen in love with the characters (even Nesta!). I am envious of the beauty and danger of this world. I am absolutely desperate to pick up the next book in the series and keep going and going and going. This series is fantastic so far. Fantastic!  When it comes to favorite characters, I will have to say Rhysand the one. How well written is this man that you feel his pain and pure desperation to save his found family and city. To stand up for the people around him and build a home and community he’s proud of. Plus he is sexy as hell! Take ME far away so I can hear that roar. But that pain in MY hair! Also, Amren…oooooo y’all look out for her! Badass incarnate and I can not WAIT to see what she is and where she came from.  Also another favorite for me in this books is the Summer Court scenes. Tarquin, though not a massive part in this book, is a man you can easily fall in love with. Dark skin and white hair amongst a beautiful never ending summer lane. Loved it! I could literally smell the salt air and hear the gulls. The beauty described filled my mind and the chaos of the situation/mission made my heart pound with excitement and awe.  So yea, I may be a Feyre hater…but it has not stopped me from seeing the vision Maas is showing in the ACOTAR series. I can say I will probably love Feyre by the end of it all. She shows signs of hope. But man, am I invested in this world! Take me away, Ms. Maas. I want to be a part of the world you have created again soon.
A Court of Mist and Fury: A Riveting Sequel That Exceeds Expectations Sarah J. Maas astounds once again with "A Court of Mist and Fury," the spellbinding sequel to her acclaimed "A Court of Thorns and Roses." In this captivating installment, Maas plunges readers deeper into the lush and intricate world of Prythian, where danger lurks at every turn and alliances are tested in the crucible of war.  Following the events of the first book, Feyre Archeron grapples with the aftermath of her harrowing ordeal and struggles to find her place in the tumultuous faerie courts. As she navigates the treacherous politics and power struggles of her new reality, Feyre discovers strength and resilience she never knew she possessed.  One of the most compelling aspects of "A Court of Mist and Fury" is the evolution of its characters. Maas deftly explores themes of trauma, healing, and self-discovery, as Feyre undergoes a transformative journey that challenges her beliefs and forces her to confront her deepest fears.  The introduction of new characters adds depth and complexity to the story, while existing characters are further fleshed out, revealing hidden depths and motivations. The dynamics between characters are as nuanced as ever, with alliances shifting and betrayals lurking around every corner.  Maas's prose is as lush and evocative as ever, painting vivid imagery that transports readers to the breathtaking landscapes of Prythian. The action is fast-paced and electrifying, keeping readers on the edge of their seats until the very end.  Overall, "A Court of Mist and Fury" is a triumph of storytelling, weaving together romance, intrigue, and high-stakes drama in a mesmerizing tapestry that will leave readers clamoring for more. With its compelling characters, richly imagined world, and pulse-pounding plot, this book is a must-read for fans of fantasy and romance alike.
Okay Feyre! I see you! “I was not a pet, not a doll, not an animal. I was a survivor, and I was strong. I would not be weak, or helpless again. I would not, could not be broken.”  I know I am only two books into this series, but this book is my favorite! The Acotar series is my first dive in to the world of Sarah J. Maas and I am so glad that I did. So, we know that Rhys put a bond on Feyre that requires her to leave Tamlin one week a month and spend it with him him. Well, that bond took this book to places I was not expecting, but I LOVED IT! The world building in this books is so beautiful and vibrant. The descriptions are mind blowing. I can't wait to see more of the fae world in these books. The spice is a 2/5. It's there but there is definitely more plot than spice in this book. The emotional damage is a 3/5. This book has some very emotional moments in it. The character development is outstanding. The addition of new characters definitely a plus for the book. Feyre is my new hero. I just not thought I would see her in the way she is in this book. The turn this book took was definitely in her favor. As far as Rhys goes, I definitely have so much more respect for him. While the first book showed Rhys as a player of a sorts, this book shows his domestic side and I love it. Now, Tamlin...Oh Tamlin you disappointed me so much. I was not prepared for the person that you are in this book. Lucian is till the same Lucian riding the border of wanting to please Tamlin and help Feyre. I can't wait to see where else his character goes. I definitely recommend this book.
Rhysand + You = Hurry up and read this book! This book was everything I had hoped it would, and SO MUCH more! I loved it as much as I love Rhysland. There, I said it. There's romance, sensuality, character growth, action, betrayal, friendships, family ties, and so much more. The character developments, the story telling, the world building, and the way Maas wrote this story is AWESOME! This book is the packaged deal. Okay, I'll admit it, Rhysand is the packaged deal in this book.  I knew there was much more to Rhysand than we got to know in A Court of Thorns and Roses. Boy is there a lot more to him! I loved the way I got to know him in this book. Maas held things back from readers, allowing us to get to know Rhysand as Feyre got to know him. Part of that is what made it easier to fall in love with his character. The more I got to know him, the easier it was for me to really see him for who he was, and in turn made it easy to see the differences between him and Tamlin. Rhysland is that character you want on your side. He's loyal to those close to him, doesn't apologize for who he really is, doesn't hold back when it comes to loving a certain someone, and unlike some characters, he sees Feyre for all that she really is, and allows her to be who she is, and all that she's becoming.  Despite the fact he can make anyone do anything he wants, Rhysland gives Feyre choices, and allows her to make them. He wants her to be who she wants to be. Rhysand a character that readers will get to see all sides of, and fall in love with in the process. I love the way he treats Feyre, and his court. He's very powerful, someone to fear, yet for all the darkness that resides within him, I came to understand how the darkness he has calms and brings peace to Feyre. He is that person who isn't only compassionate and loyal when it comes to his court, he's someone who knows how to treat to a woman. He treats Feyre with so much love, respect and understanding. *sigh* Just wait until you see how he treats her... you won't be able to resist falling for him either. I've completely fallen in love with his character.  Feyre by all means is an equal to Rhys. Not only did I love their banter, electric chemistry, and those hot scenes between them ( I swear the pages ignited in this book more than a few times), I loved how she fell for Rhysand. The more I got to know him, the more I understood how she slowly started to fall for him. It was natural and made sense. Most importantly, I loved that she realized she is worth so much more than she's ever thought. I loved that she grew into a strong, fierce character/women who not only learned to love herself, but love someone who truly loved her, and didn't want to keep her in a cage. I loved that she learned to fight, and embrace her powers, both literally and figuratively. She grew so much, and I loved that she became a force to reckon with. What I admired the most about Feyre's character development in this book, is that she learned to love herself. She learned to embrace who she is, and all that she is. I respected her even more for that.  The romance and character chemistry in this book was on fire! The banter, and flirting between Rhysand and Feyre was, well that's just say these two know how to push each other's buttons, and get under each other's skin in all the right ways. Together, Feyre and Rhysland are something amazing. Aside from all the physical aspects, and passion these two share, I love that they chase away the darkness that threatens to consume the other. They both have experienced horrific things that they are still dealing with. They are each other's hope, and light. They're there for each other and help pull each other out of the darkness, or sometimes are there to hold the other as they endure the nightmares.  One of the things I liked about theme of love in this book, is the way Feyre came to realize what it truly meant to be loved and be in love, vs what she thought love was. I appreciated the fact that Maas doesn't just tell her readers this, she shows us through character actions. We see it through Feyre's realization of what Rhysand's been telling her, and how he treats her vs how Tamlin treats her. Tamlin's fall from grace is that he didn't respect Feyre enough to allow her to be herself. He didn't treat her like an equal, but instead wanted keep her locked up and in his possession. I may have got the 'why' in that, but I didn't agree with it at all. The contrast between how Rhysand and Tamlin both treated Feyre was painfully obvious through out the book.  Maas has a way with creating in-depth characters I really come to care about. She effortlessly brings them to life, as well as their stories, and vividly detailed worlds. I loved getting to go deeper into the Fey world, being introduced to more characters, and seeing the different parts of their world. I loved getting to know the Night Court. Maas has always created characters that really add depth to the story, and the Night Court was no different. I loved meeting and getting to know Rhys's inner circle. These characters weren't only friends, they are family, and it really showed in their story. Along with the Night Court, which has become my favorite court, I loved seeing more of the other characters, and learning about their histories, and ties together with their courts.  I felt every range of emotion possible while reading this book. I laughed, I cried, I cheered, I swooned, got swept off my feet, was happy, angry (at a certain someone), and I completely fell in love with all that this book offered me. I officially have a book hang over. Sarah J. Maas what have you done to me?! The turn of events, the character developments, and the over all story are that good! I feel bad for the next book I read after this one, because I already had to re-read this book once, because it was so good. I don't even know what else I can say, other than, that is one heck of an awesome sequel! Now the torture will be waiting a whole another for the next book!  *There are sensual scenes, and well written sex scenes through out the book, as well as the use of the f-word a few times through out the book, making it a book that may not be suitable for younger YA readers.
One of those books I wish I could read again for the first time “To the stars who listen—and the dreams that are answered.”  I think ACOTAR is the perfect first book but I think ACOMAF is probably the best book in the series. It is my absolute favorite for so many reasons. Maas does this amazing job of showcasing just how much Under the Mountain impacted Feyre. We have her clearly struggling with some serious PTSD... and Tamlin... well.. per the norm is oblivious. Ianthe, a new character, and a Priestess becomes an annoyance. Lucien... well he seems less like a friend and more like Tamlin's lackey. I think it's all these things... and watching Feyre beg to be let in and be a part of things that just makes you hate all of them.  However, it's okay because all of this causes Rhys to enter the narrative in the most dramatic way humanly possible. We then get her visits which are a requirement of the bargain she made. Rhys begins to show us a side we didn't get before and quickly works his way into the reader's heart. Especially with the stark contrast to Tamlin in this one. We get the back and forth between Night Court and Spring Court, a dramatic shift for Feyre, and then an intense narrative. One in which romance is important, but like now we have the threat of war from Hybern.  I adore this book because I think it has amazing character development and even shows us parts of characters we were blind to before. Feyre slowly goes from this broken creature to this powerful Fae. It's a beautiful transition to watch happen. Not to mention the found family vibes in this one. I think Rhys has a court which works so well together and one in which Feyre easily fits in. I have to say the Night Court is probably my favorite part of this story. Even as a reread this book had me in my feels. It turns out it was almost like reading it again for the first time.  Maas really knows how to play on the emotions and she has the uncanny ability to hold it all until the end. I think this one is probably one of my favorites though because we get a lot of big reveals throughout and then the end is just this masterpiece where you are constantly ready to scream, cry, laugh and throw things. I think this one is high on my list of books I wish I could read for the first time again. I think it has all the elements you want in a romantasy.
Fifty Shades of Feyre and Rhys A Court of Mist and Fury is the sequel to A Court of Thorns and Roses. I don't even know how to function as I write this review. Sarah J Maas has literally just written her best book yet. And that's saying something because her Throne of Glass series books are phenomenal.  Feyre has completely transformed in this book. We last seen her made into a Fae, after Amarantha had killed her Under the Mountain in book one. All 7 High Lords from each court used a spark of their power to revive Feyre, and make her into a Fae. What they didn't know was that they would make her into something beyond their power. When they gave her their spark, they also gave her powers from each court. Throughout the book we see her train and practice her new found powers, and she definitely comes into her own.  Her relationship with Tamlin becomes very strenuous because like Feyre, he was broken in more ways than one Under the Mountain. We see him become a very dark and tortured soul, holding Feyre as a captive. He does not include her in the going-ons of the court, and he insists on locking her up and having her guarded at all costs. Most would see this as an act of love, someone who literal saw the person he loves die, while he was forced to watch idly. However, Feyre feels stifled. And while she's broken too, she can't forgive him for not fighting against Amarantha as she destroyed her. And who can blame her. When Rhys, High Lord of the Night Court even tried fighting to save her, and at the time he was perceived as the enemy in Feyre's eyes.  Rhysand--- I don't even know where to begin. Never in a million years would I have guessed that a love to rival all loves would blossom between Feyre and Rhys. Due to their bargain, Feyre was forced to go to the Night Court once a month. Whisked away by the fiercely dark and handsome Rhys, Tamlin was forced to see his Fiancé taken by his enemy. At first, Feyre hates him, until she truly sees the driving force behind Rhys' actions. He is dark and powerful, but he is loyal to those he loves, and would do anything to protect them, which winds up including Feyre. I won't give too much away, but the love that builds between them was so intriguing to read. Sarah J Maas made a very interesting choice to write this book with an older audience in mind. There were lots of intense sex scenes with not so quite kid-friendly language.  At first, this threw me off because I know this is a Young Adult book. I didn't see how well it would mesh together. But as the book progressed, Sarah's risk totally blossomed into something magnificent. Feyre's and Rhys' relationship was primal, animalistic, and intense. It showed us what we become when we let our base desires completely take over. It was a thrill-seeking ride, that often left me feeling hot and bothered---if you know what I mean.  Besides the development of these two characters, we also got to meet some new characters, those from the Night Court. Mor, the beautiful and powerful third in command, and also Rhys' cousin. She instantly befriended Feyre, and they had plenty of much needed girl-bonding time. Cassian, one of two of Illyrian's top fighters. An enigmatic, hot-tempered, yet playful character that is protective of both Mor and Azriel. Azriel, the one of a kind Shadowsinger. He encases himself in shadows, and the shadows speak to him. Rhys uses him as his spymaster, because he's a master at stealth and getting information out of people.He's also the other Illyrian that's the strongest fighter, along with Cassian. Also, he's completely in love with Mor. Lastly, my personal favorite, Amren. She's said to be an ancient creature. A creature that slipped into this universe when the world was created. While it's said that there might be others like her, she's also one of a kind. Her power is ancient , and Rhys said that its contained within the body she's using. However he lets us know that if she was ever released, the world would be in huge trouble. Amren is also Rhys' second in command.  The world building was absolutely mind-blowing in this book. Maas' descriptions of the city of Velaris, the city that Rhys has protected from the outside world, was so utterly beautiful. The landscape was breath taking, and the fact that it hasn't been influenced by outside forces and was able to prosper in peace was so beautiful to read about. It was like a hidden Utopia. Rhys has taken the brunt of negative opinions towards his court and him, in order to keep Velaris safe and untainted. He would rather be viewed as a sadistic killer, who's shrouded in darkness and can turn your mind to mush, rather than let his hidden gem Velaris be tarnished.  The plot was easy to follow and allowed us readers to see some of the history of the world within the book. The King of Hybern is the main villain in this book. He is using a Cauldron, the object that is believed to be what created all life, and holds unimaginable power, so he can wage a war on any who oppose him. He also wants to bring down the ancient wall that prevents the Fae from entering the land where humans reside.  Only one object can counter and nullify the Cauldron, and it is the book of Breathings. However, it was torn in two and carded off to two places. One is in the Summer Court, and the other is in the land where the human's are, protected by the Mortal Queens. This happened as a peace treaty back in the last war that Mor was very much apart of. She helped create the treaty between the mortal queens of that time and the Fae. Amren as ancient as she is, knows of the book and is the only person that can read it's language. And ironically, Feyre is the only one who can actually use it because she was once a mortal, and now is a Fae.  Overall, Sarah J Maas has written her best book yet. A Court of Mist and Fury is deeply primitive in its showing of our base desires. Love, sex, and bonding are taken to new heights in Feyre's and Rhys' relationship, and readers will often find themselves completely turned on. Readers will also lose their breath as they dive into Maas' many beautiful descriptions of her world. And will become engrossed in the history of the world she's created, and watch transfixed, as each character navigates within it and progresses the plot until it's nail-biting climax. The ending will have you pulling out your hair.  If you haven't read A Court of Thorns and Roses book one of the series, please go out and do so. And then dive into this spectacular book.
Mesmerizing and Phenomenal Second Book "A Court of Mist and Fury" by Sarah J. Maas is an absolute triumph in the world of fantasy literature. The book picks up where its predecessor left off, with Feyre grappling with the aftermath of her harrowing trials and the dark deeds she committed to save Tamlin's people. The story explores the conflict between her newfound High Fae powers and her enduring human heart, and the weight of her bargain with Rhysand, the enigmatic High Lord of the Night Court.  This sequel is a rollercoaster of emotions and a masterclass in character development. Building upon the foundations laid in "A Court of Thorns and Roses," this second installment takes readers on a breathtaking journey of self-discovery, power, and love. Feyre's growth is nothing short of remarkable as she navigates the intricate web of politics, passion, and power in the Night Court. The tension in the story is palpable, and the book keeps you turning the pages in anticipation of those sweet moments and unexpected twists.  What sets "A Court of Mist and Fury" apart is its ability to build deep connections between readers and the characters. The world-building in this book is exceptional, immersing you in a richly crafted universe. And of course, the romance is nothing short of spellbinding. Unlike the first book, everything in this sequel flows seamlessly, drawing you further into the intricate relationships and conflicts.  "A Court of Mist and Fury" by Sarah J. Maas has garnered a devoted following, and it's easy to see why. It is a must-read for anyone who craves a compelling blend of magic, passion, and unforgettable characters.  The tension in the story is not just good; it's masterfully crafted to keep readers on the edge of their seats, yearning for those sweet moments and unexpected revelations. The plot delivers a tantalizing mix of both surprising and predictable twists, ensuring that every chapter feels like an exciting adventure.  What truly sets this book apart is the remarkable character development. Feyre's transformation is a triumph, and it's impossible not to feel deeply connected to her and the entire cast of characters. The relationships that evolve throughout the story feel authentic and are filled with depth, a stark contrast to the first book in the series.  In addition to what's already been highlighted, the emotional depth of "A Court of Mist and Fury" is astounding. The trauma, the power struggles, and the heartbreak that the characters endure are explored with raw authenticity. This resonates deeply with readers, making the story not just about fantasy but about human experiences.  Furthermore, the world-building is exceptionally vivid, transporting you to a realm filled with magic, beauty, and danger. It's a testament to Sarah J. Maas' storytelling prowess that she can make this fictional world feel so tangible and immersive.  And, of course, the romance is nothing short of breathtaking. It's not merely a plot device but a central element that enriches the characters and their journeys. The chemistry between Feyre and Rhysand is electric, drawing readers into their complex and passionate relationship.  In conclusion, "A Court of Mist and Fury" is a fantasy masterpiece that turns even the most skeptical readers into ardent fans of the genre. With a gripping plot, unforgettable characters, and a world so well-crafted it feels real, it's no wonder this book has become a cherished favorite for many. Sarah J. Maas has not only expanded the world of Feyre but also enchanted the hearts of countless readers with this stunning sequel. This book is a true gem, and it's bound to leave a lasting impression on your heart and mind.
This Book! **Spoilers***  Wow! This book! This book! What a “spell” SJM has cast upon her readers! What a way to play with our emotions to have us all hope for Tamlin & Feyre to bond/mate and to NOT like Rhysand and think he’s a villain. Then this book happens! It shows us a beautiful new world with Rhys & slowly introducing his “circle” of friends. These new characters I love! This new Rhys I loved! The High Lord of the Night Court is powerful and mighty and his heart, his feelings and his “backstory” of discovering Feyre just broke my heart 💔 Feyre’s character development was fantastic as she learned to grow with her love for Rhys. Once they got together 😉 and The ending! Wow did not see that coming. I loved also how in the last 2 chapters it switched from Feyre POV to Rhys also. This world SJM created is amazing. This book was definitely SO much better then ACOTAR . I could hardly put this book down and when I was not reading it, my brain was wanted to be back in this world. Read this book!
Rhysand or Tamlin There were quite a few plot twists in this book. But I now see how Feyre ended up with Rhysand! I would have done the same if the one person who was supposed to help heal me locked me up in another prison. Rhysand saw and treated Feyre as his equal where Tamlin never saw her as his equal. Tamlin may have never been the good guy. He did everything for the benefit of himself while Rhysand did everything to protect the ones he loved! I am team Rhysand. He did what Tamlin should have done from the beginning.
Holy Crap Okay this book had so many twists and turns and I loved every freaking page!!! Slowly realized that I actually really don’t like Tamlin very much and I’m so freaking happy to have read chapter 52!!!!! The freaking twist had me squealing like a school girl over a crush!!! I’m team Rhys all the way! The ending had me upset though! So ready for book three!
oh lord I don’t know where to begin or end with this book. I loved the story progression, the world building, the intensity, all of it. Sarah Maas’s writing really made me feel what the characters were feeling, and I couldn’t stop crying or laughing or cringing with them. It’s really easy to get attached to characters you never would’ve suspected. I couldn’t put this book down, it’s pace just perfect for me, and I’m off to the third one now!
This One Was Good *****Spoilers*****  This book was so much more than I expected but am I glad I decided to give the story a chance after the first one. The beginning of this one is slow and Feyre spends a lot of time being a broken mess from her time under the care of Amarantha. Those internal scars don't heal easily and it shows though I will admit I was disappointed that Feyre's spirit was broken so much from it. Tamlin's overprotective nature ended up driving Feyre away and with the panic of being held captive overriding her senses and making her physically ill, it's one too many and Rhys comes for Feyre as she panics just before marrying Tamlin.  Thank you Rhys for coming to the rescue. I couldn't understand why Feyre was so resentful of Rhys in the first book or in this one. Bad image aside, he'd actually done so much for Feyre I was stupified as to why she didn't see it. Getting to meet the real members of Rhys's inner circle as well as understanding his character first hand was more than enough to put me firmly in his camp though I was already there anyway. I would have liked to see Rhys unleashing his powers more often but Rhys keeps it contained for the most part. Except when an insult to Feyre leads him to break bones and fingers, brutal in the intensity Rhys is capable of and different from what we see from him in the book up to that point. It wasn't overdone to the point of distaste either so Rhys isn't a monster afterward.  I love when Rhys and Feyre finally, finally connect after months of attraction simmering between them at the Winter Court. I didn't like the whore or traitor labels Feyre ascribed to herself while she's with Rhys and thinking about how she turned away from Tamlin and in such a short time. It's understandable I think to be a little confused given she loved Tamlin and had spent time so much time at the Spring Court but I was still exasperated. Probably because I just wanted her to suck it up and move on to Rhys. Speaking of different courts, I think she and Rhys definitely should have approached the Summer Court differently. I hoped they'd ask the whole time up to when they finally broke in to get the book because making an enemy if summer just wasn't really necessary though trusting the other high lords would mean so much.  I like that Feyre has powers across the seven courts and is learning how to use them and fight both physically and with those powers. Rhys seems to have had a hand in making sure the high lords were okay with imbuing her with their powers so that she'd live in the first book. Rhys's actions from book one are explained which does nothing except endear him to me even more. I was surprised he knew early on that Feyre was his mate but felt that he didn't deserve her at all and let her stay with Tamlin. The disappearing notes were just another sweet way to win him the girl. Mates could be explained some in this book, that was missing and other than a mention here and there, information was scant. That Rhys and Feyre split up so early in their mating was also strange given what we're told about how mating affects the Fae males and they had much less than a week together for it. I'd have liked if their solo interlude lasted longer. Rhys and Feyre also talked about having kids which is not what I'm used to and it was good different I thought.  The inner circle was impressive. Azriel and Amren were scary which is good for Feyre and Rhys. Once the fighting started, I would have loved to get more of what Azriel and Amren did in terms of damage. I wasn't surprised the mortal queens gave up Rhys's sanctuary but I was happy the one gave them the book in the end.  The enemy king was scary powerful. I didn't understand how he could defeat almost all of Rhys's inner circle so easily and handily. He also wasn't as brutal as I expected either, nor did he ensure his enemies were killed. The scene with the mortal queens made no sense to me why there was such a large audience that hadn't been slaughtered. Too I didn't like that Feyre's sisters were transformed into Fae women by the cauldron. In this case, it's too convenient and Feyre loses some of what makes her special in the land of the Fae. I'm not sure how she's going to live with Tamlin again as his betrothed when she's already mated to Rhys, it seems a disaster in the making but she is set up in the right place to be a spy. I also love that Feyre's bond with Rhys can't be broken, I was afraid of what it meant when I thought it could be severed.
kept me on my toes OMG!!!!!!! This series is the BEST book series I’ve ever read!!! I finished this book in two days! I couldn’t stay away from it! Definitely kept me on my toes. Almost everyone in the first book that I loved I ended up disliking. The book pulls you in and out over and over again! Can’t wait to see what happens in the third book!
A true 5 The sequel was infinitely better than the first book, which is saying something, bc the first was good. The range of emotions I felt in the last few chapters of this book was incredible.  Of note - can’t remember the last time I went from loving to hating a character in a book as fast as Tamlin. Also, Dain is the most Tamlin coded and it’s wild.  V much looking forward to being destroyed mentally and emotionally by the rest of the books in the series.
One of my favorite books so far! I’m obsessed with this book. Not as spicy as I thought but it was more slow burn, romance kind of spice. With a really great plot. Sarah does a great job with her descriptions I feel like I was there in the book. So many twists and turns. I probably will re read this book one day!
A sequel that is even better than the first book Fun, exciting, sexy, and totally addictive! Is the writing clunky at times? Sure, but who cares. Characters “drawl” and “pluck at imaginary dirt on their tunics” more than they should, but it doesn’t matter. The story is so engaging and the relationships are so much fun, it’s easy to forgive some of the literary missteps. Ends with a great cliffhanger, so I need to stop reviewing and start reading book three!
Oooh this is where things start getting good. Feyre is free from under the mountain, but not really free. Tamlin shows his true colors and challenges the love they have built. Maybe not all loves are built to last..... Lucien continues to be Lucien but I was disappointed he didn't fight for Feyre when she needed him to. The introduction of the dark court is amazing and complex. I could not imagine missing out on exploring it further.
Amazing work of art. Profound story telling. Perhaps after much reflection I will have words with enough merit to do this book justice. Thank you for the journey and I am eager for the next step on this path.
Emotional roller coaster I won’t give away any spoilers, but the second book surpassed the emotional journey of the first book. I absolutely could not put this book down. My only advice is that when you buy this book by the third one in the series as well. So that when you finish this book and you’re on the edge of your seat, you’ll have the third to continue the story. Best series I’ve read in a while. I’m so excited to read the rest of the books in it!!
A Masterclass in Psychological Suspense - Prepare to Be Utterly Floored Brace yourself, because "The Housemaid" is a novel that will keep you glued to the pages from start to finish, constantly questioning everything you think you know. Just when you believe you've unraveled the twisted narrative, author Freida McFadden pulls the rug out from under you, leaving you breathless and craving more. This book is a true masterclass in psychological suspense that demands to be devoured in a single, uninterrupted sitting.  From the opening chapters, McFadden weaves an intricate web of mystery and deceit, introducing readers to a cast of complex characters and a seemingly idyllic suburban setting that harbors dark secrets beneath its pristine veneer. The story's central figure, the enigmatic housemaid Millie, is a captivating presence, her motivations and allegiances constantly shifting, keeping you guessing about her true nature until the very end.  As the plot unfolds, the tension ratchets up with each turn of the page, as McFadden deftly plants seeds of doubt and suspicion, forcing you to question the reliability of every character's perspective. Just when you think you've pieced together the puzzle, she expertly upends your assumptions, leaving you reeling and eagerly devouring the next twist or revelation.  What truly sets "The Housemaid" apart, however, is its ability to not only shock and surprise but also to delve into the depths of human psychology and the complexities of familial relationships. McFadden's exploration of themes such as trust, loyalty, and the lengths to which people will go to protect their loved ones adds a compelling emotional layer to the narrative, making the characters and their plights resonate long after the final page.  From the meticulously crafted plot to the richly developed characters and the haunting atmospheric backdrop, every element of "The Housemaid" is a testament to McFadden's skill as a writer. She masterfully keeps you off-balance, constantly second-guessing your assumptions and reveling in the delicious uncertainty that permeates every chapter.  In the end, this book is an absolute must-read for fans of psychological thrillers and suspense novels. It's a true page-turner in every sense of the word, a book that will keep you captivated from start to finish, leaving you breathless and utterly floored by its brilliant execution. Do yourself a favor and clear your schedule before diving into "The Housemaid" – because once you start, you won't be able to put it down until the jaw-dropping conclusion.
Plot twist! The first book I read by Frieda had me unimpressed and wondering if I should read anything by here again. I’m glad I chose to try another one! This book had me from the first chapter! I knew there had to be something crazy going on and I still didn’t even have a thought of what it could be until over half way through! Nina is a wife and mother who needs some help at home. Nina hires Millie to help and then get ready for the ride! Millie is down on her luck and is desperate to find any job that will accept her with her background. Getting this job would solve everything or will it….
THRILLING CAT & MOUSE GAME... “Welcome to the family,” Nina Winchester says as I shake her elegant, manicured hand. I smile politely, gazing around the marble hallway. Working here is my last chance to start fresh. I can pretend to be whoever I like. But I’ll soon learn that the Winchesters’ secrets are far more dangerous than my own…  Every day I clean the Winchesters’ beautiful house top to bottom. I collect their daughter from school. And I cook a delicious meal for the whole family before heading up to eat alone in my tiny room on the top floor.  I try to ignore how Nina makes a mess just to watch me clean it up. How she tells strange lies about her own daughter. And how her husband Andrew seems more broken every day. But as I look into Andrew’s handsome brown eyes, so full of pain, it’s hard not to imagine what it would be like to live Nina’s life. The walk-in closet, the fancy car, the perfect husband.  I only try on one of Nina’s pristine white dresses once. Just to see what it’s like. But she soon finds out… and by the time I realize my attic bedroom door only locks from the outside, it’s far too late.  But I reassure myself: the Winchesters don’t know who I really am.  They don’t know what I’m capable of…  My Thoughts:  The journey with The Housemaid kept me turning pages rapidly. Back and forth we go, trying to figure out the secrets that will keep the characters on their toes.  I thought my favorite was Millie, but then the story flips and we learn more about Nina. Nothing is quite what it seems.  Will Nina turn out to be a character we enjoy, too?  By the end, all is sorted. 5 stars.  ***
Hold onto your hats The Housemaid has always been one of my favorites. The Housemaid is Watching publishes on June 11 so I decided it was time to give this a re-read!  There are many reasons why I love this book, it grabs you and doesn’t let you go. The plot is so well developed and fast, this is one of those “read in 24 hours” books. And I quite literally read it in 24 hours both times I read this.  Another thing I love about this book (and all of Freida’s books honestly) is everything about the characters. I have nothing in common with Millie whatsoever, but seeing her development throughout the story was one of the best parts  Freida is the QUEEN of twists. With this being a re-read from a year ago, some of them still tricked me. I went from “Nina is so annoying” to “omg Nina went through the RINGER”  This book thoroughly creeped me out at some parts, like the 100 strands of hair?? NOPE BYE  If you like fast paced, suspenseful psychological thrillers please read this. I will not let you down.
Rollercoaster That was a rollercoaster. I thought part one was a little slow but it was necessary for part two to hit the way it did. Part two was completely addicting and I didn't set the book down until I was done with it. This book is also not the genre that I traditionally read but man am I a sucker for a good psychological thriller. I'm really glad I gave this book a try and I recommend others give it a try as well.
Exceptional writing This book was incredible. I could barely go to bed at night because I didn’t want to put the book down. Exciting. Had I not read this book? I think I would still have a dirty bathroom sink. Characters in the story are doing their own narration by saying the thoughts in their head. As a reader, I see what they’re thinking that they would really like to say, but don’t. This must be my new best author. Thank you so much for sharing your talent. I can’t wait to read the next book and the next and the next that you write
The Revelation of it all….. I thoroughly enjoyed this read!!!! I honestly thought Nina was CRAZY. The way she was treating Millie, making messes and providing false information to intentionally throw her off had me screaming at the book. And the sympathy I was giving to Andy only to find out that he was the actual crazy one, smh. And let’s not forget his mother. That’s where Andy got the behavior from. This book was definitely a mind fk for sure but awesome nonetheless. I did not expect the ending to go this way. I just knew Andy was miserable with Nina then when he kicked her out I was like yesss five points for Millie!!! I thought he would divorce Nina, marry Millie and they have babies but then boom, the plot twist comes and I am stunned. Now to read part two, I know it’s going to be just as good
Enjoyable read, didn’t want to set it down, excellently executed This book was the first I’ve read in a long time that pulled me in and made me not want to set it down. I often find myself bored with new books I try out, and move on after a few chapters, especially with authors that aren’t already familiar to me. But this one kept me engrossed all the way through. Frieda McFadden isn’t new to me anymore; I plan to start the next book as soon as I finish this review. The title tells you there’s a twist, but knowing it’s there, even guessing what it would be, doesn’t make it any less absorbing. The protagonists are women and you read from their point of view, but these are not wish-washy, helpless women. You do not have to wade through useless, detailed descriptions of their outfits or appearance, which always bores me. I really appreciated that author kept to the details that are pertinent to the plot, rather than seeming to indulge in a personal fantasy through her characters, which turns me off of many female authors. I’m a female reader, but I want to read a good story, not someone else’s daydream about outfits, appearance, status, shoes, blah, blah, blah. She didn’t leave any glaring holes in the plot that require suspending disbelief in spite of the fact that it involves a type of life that seems too good to be true. Although I usually prefer novels with multiple subplots and extensive character backstories, very much of those would have ruined this one. There is enough of that to make the plot work well, and more would have detracted from it. I believe the more streamlined plot will likely make this book appealing to readers who prefer less convoluted stories as well as still engaging those of us who usually tend to enjoy more involved ones. Made the subscription to Kindle Unlimited totally worth it. I may not have found this book & given it a try otherwise. I’ll be reading anything else she’s written whether it’s included in Unlimited or not. Definitely recommend.
Hard To Put Down! This book was a real page turner! Following the main character Millie, a young girl trying to get by but struggling to stay employed with a bad past, you felt sorry for the crap she has to put up with, having rich snobby employers. I felt myself sympathizing so many times for Millie and the story managed to throw quite a few twists and turns in that had me reevaluating things. Overall I loved this thriller!
Soooooo Good! Why did I start this book at 10:30pm? I was up until 3:30 am reading. I get a phone call at 7am from a friend who knows I get up around 6am. Was I up, no. Did I go back to sleep, no. I picked up my Kindle and finished this book. What am I doing this afternoon? That’s right, I’m reading the second in the series because it’s that freaking good!
A continuous page turner! I actually could NOT put the book down. I ordered the book to read over memorial weekend, something to get into so I could put my phone down. I'm so glad I chose this series to begin with. The book was engaging from page 1. I finished in 2 days because it was just that good. I recommend not wasting another minute guessing, GET THE BOOK
Love the twists that keep you guessing! This book has been highly recommended by everyone who has read it- and now that will include more. The writing was very clever, where not one detail was dropped without purpose, even if it doesn't become apparent for a hundred pages or so. I loved the intrigue of this book, where just when you think you know what's going on, Freud's McFadden turns it on its head and goes in a surprising new direction. I really enjoyed this book and excited you read the rest of the series! Trigger warnings for domestic violence, mentions of sexual assault and rape.
LOVED IT! I had this book for a few weeks before opening it up.  Once I started reading it, I couldn’t put it down.  It’s a perfect, quick, thriller. I felt like I was reading a movie.  I loved it so much that I went to view the one star reviews and ironically many reasons why ppl didn’t love this book were the exact reasons I did.  I finished the 2nd part and looking forward to the 3rd!
Great read … unexpected twist I play a lot of story-driven hidden object cozy games, and one thing I’ve learned is to never trust the first character you meet. This book follows that same premise. You meet the main character interviewing for a position she really isn’t qualified for with a woman who seems to have it all together. So, imagine her surprise when she’s hired. However, her first day on the job, her employer’s true colors come through. One thing our heroine learned during her employment is that behind the facade of the rich and powerful lies a multitude of lies and deceit. Not everything is as it seems. Once you think you have it all figured out, you find out at the end that you really don’t.  I highly recommend this book. It was better than I thought it would be.
Keeps you guessing! When it first becomes clear that there is an issue you find yourself drawn in to the story and dying to figure it out. The author effectively releases small clues to keep you involved. What really was happening came as a shocker,particularly since you find yourself rooting for Andrew and Millie.
Spoiler Free Review! An intriguing thriller! I can’t believe it has taken me this long to pick up The Housemaid by Fredia Mcfaddens! I was a little hesitant to pick it up since I’ve been hearing mixed reviews about but I’m glad I finally picked it up!  The Housemaid had me drawn in since the beginning, the little teaser we get before the events of the book was an intriguing start to the novel. Our main character Millie is certainly an interesting one, it was really fun to read from her perspective during the time she works for the winchesters. The events that follow her working for them and their strange behaviors really had me at the edge of my seat!  I really liked all of our characters, Millie was an amazing main character to follow and the side characters were just as good! I really liked Enzo as a side character and was happy that we get to know him a little better. Fredia Mcfaden does a really good job of writing love interest that I genuinely like (it’s a plus that the romances are considered closed door romance).  The first part of the story was good but the second part was even better! I initially thought this was going to be a four star read but after the second and third part of the book my rating easily bumped up to a five star! The twist and outcome were just so good, the little epilogue is an interesting end.  Overall, I finished this book in about a day! It was hard to put down, I’ll definitely be continuing on with this series!
lost of words amazing book In the beginning of the story, I thought the wife was crazy, but the fact that the husband is crazy and psycho and he is also victim because of his crazy mother I finished this book in three days. I can’t wait to read the second book and the dirt book.
Original and Amazing I loved this book. I knew it was good from the rating on Amazon, but I didn’t read any of the reviews, I wanted to read it with only the knowledge that it’s about a housemaid. I loved how the author wove the story together, I loved the short chapters, and I loved how the tables turned towards the end. I’m not going to talk about any characters or the storyline, I’m just going to very highly recommend that you read this book.
wow! Oh wow! Oh my gosh! That was not what I was expecting at all! Those last two twists at the end! So damn crazy! The Housemaid was such a good read and so hard to put down. For sure one of my favorites of the year.
Couldn't put it down Well done. The character development and timing of revelations (there has to be little things revealed, right?!) is spot on. Just when you think you've got it figured out, you learn something new. The Housemaid is lucky to have her job, and due to being on parole and having little to no money, she must watch her every move to keep her housekeeping job. Her new employer keeps her on her toes, causing concern for her job stability. But then...  This next paragraph could be a spoiler alert, so stop reading if you haven't read the book! This book really touched on both mental health and domestic violence. You can see how so many signs of abuse can be swept under the rug, ignored, blamed on circumstances, dismissed because of a man's career success, good looks, or wealth. There's a feeling of poetic justice at the end.
Great Book The Death Watcher is the latest instalment in the Robert Hunter series and sees Robert and Carlos hunting for a ghost who leaves no evidence behind and is practically a ghost. This is probably one of my most anticipated books of 2024 and it certainly didn’t disappoint. Chris Carter has a way of hooking me right from the start of the book and leaves me scrambling looking for answers through the story but as usual I did not manage to catch the killer before it was revealed on page. This book is a fantastically written addictive and thrilling read that sinks its hooks into your mind from the very beginning. If you don’t read any other book this year I would highly recommend reading this one, it’s just that good!
Absolutely brilliant As always an absolutely brilliant read from Chris Carter. Not as many gory descriptions as some of his books but another intriguing, puzzling and hard to work out who could be so awful and clever to be doing the murders. Thanks once again for a brilliant read.
brilliant straight from the off Wow, twists , turns, excellent plot and characters, Chris has done us proud, it’s difficult as I don’t want to give anything away, but it’s a must read
Brilliant Love all chris carter's book
ABSOLUTELY FANTASTIC! I've finished reading The Death Watcher by @chriscarterbooksofficial, and I rate it 5 stars 🌟  When a routine autopsy on what looked like a straightforward hit-and-run case leads the LA Chief Medical Examiner, Dr Carolyn Hove, to discover something utterly shocking and puzzling inconsistencies so she calls her friend Detective Robert Hunter from the LAPD Ultra Violent Crimes Unit so he and his partner Carlos Garcia can solve the case.  But as Robert and Carlos are soon to discover, this is a calculating killer, and this is going to be a devastating case that will send shockwaves through the community. With so many lives lost, the clock is ticking, and more lives will be lost until the killer is stooped once and for all, but this killer is very clever and he will stop at nothing to keep killing!  I absolutely loved this book from start to finish. It had me utterly gripped, and I couldn't put it down. The story was absolutely fantastic with plenty of twists and turns and lots of tension building to the ultimate climax.. this book has a great set of characters . This book is a slow burn, and that fits perfectly with this story as it adds more tension and lets you know the characters a lot more. I loved how the whole story played out. This is a cleverly written and plotted and executed perfectly.  I really enjoy how Chris Carter writes that he has this way of getting the reader gripped very early on he creates unforgettable characters and creates fantastic stories  I would highly recommend this book as it's absolutely fantastic...
Inspired by true events This is book 13 in the compulsive Robert Hunter series, but can be read as a standalone. A favourite author who has created my all time favourite detective duo. Every once in a while you pick up a book that's so compelling that you can't put it down again until you've read the last page especially when you open the book and see the words.... inspired by true events. This is THAT book! l absolutely loved the slower pace at the beginning of the book when the investigation wasn't offering any leads, then comes a breakthrough moment and the suspense ratchets up. Garcia playing a higher profile role in this book added another enjoyable dimension for me to. The storyline is powerful and the book is filled with an emotional intensity rather than violence which shows how adaptable the author can be. This series somehow manages to get better with each book and Ihope there are many more instalments to come. If there's one series I would recommend to thriller readers (and these are way more than your average thriller) it's this one...... if I could give it 10 stars I would!
Amazing I've devoured everything that Chris has written. The latest instalment is still as gripping, disturbing and shocking as all of the previous books. I could not wait to get stuck in to this book and read it in a matter of hours. Brilliant Brilliant Brilliant 👏👏👏
Not Chris Carter's best work After waiting for ages for this book, I have to say I was left feeling rather disappointed. The book felt rushed and short. There were no twists, no sub plots, no character development or growth. The mystery appears to have been solved in a matter of weeks. Something just feels off with this book. I am a huge fan of Chris Carter but this book, in my opinion, is not one of his better works.
brilliant Another off the scale 5 star book. The 13th instalment in the Robert Hunter series but as good as all the rest. Everytime I read a new one it makes me want to go back to the beginning and start all over again. Now the pain of waiting for number 14!!
Fantastic Sheer brilliance. Can’t wait for the next book.
Excellent as always 5⭐️.
A joyous read and novel Superb novel. A joy to read and enjoy .David Nichols best book yet. Funny, sad, life affirming story and read. One of the most enjoyable novels I have ever read. Brilliant story and characters. Get your boots and rucksack ready. Simple story but with lots of depth and humanity .Buy it read it and you will love it. Will become a classic read and shortlisted for the booker. Brilliant.
Good read The writing is clear, funny and a well written book
Great read! Really enjoyed this book.  Great character and a well written story.  ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
Perilously close to perfection I think I once read a film review in the 80's that said the film in question was " perilously close to perfection ". And that was the phrase that came to mind when I finished this book. Nicholls might possibly be a genius.
Easy read It’s an easy read, a nice story but fairly predictable. It was a book I read quickly but found easy to put down (I love a book that keeps me gripped that I don’t want to put down)! Good for holidays when you want an easy read. The storyline is not one I’ve read before so that was a positive.
David Nicholls at his best David Nicholls never fails to delight. This novel really brings the characters to life on the pages and takes a different look at relationships and love with all their complexities. A really enjoyable read
A well worn formula A very easy read. Perhaps written with a potential TV series in mind, but faintly predicatable from the start. The 'will they - won't they' plot develops along the excellent idea of a walking tour, with the odd obvious red herrings inserted to provide some possible alternatives to what turns out to be an almost inevitable ending. I enjoyed it in an entirely unchallenging way.
Another brilliant book from David Nicholls An instant number one from me also. David Nicholls doing what he does best, making us love his characters and understand their feelings intuitively. Beautifully informative and descriptive of the route also.
Good His writing is like the Pied Piper's playing, you must read on and on and .... I enjoyed this book, it has a beginning, a middle and a very nicely rounded off ending. Mr Nicholls never disappoints but for me this one isn't his best.
Good but Disappointing Brilliant book funny in places but most dissapointed with the ending. Totally left in the dark as to whether they ended up together or not was totally dissapointed and left with a feeling was that it ?
Lovely novel! All of David Mitchell’s books are SO enjoyable and this one is no different. A coast to coast walk with two people who have been hurt and found socialising difficult, but their chance to talk and banter together amidst foul weather and fair opens up the world again. A thoughtful book with warmth and humour. (Also loved the hardback cover!).
A heartwarming story I have really enjoyed all of David Nicholls’s books and this is possibly the best of them all. A lovely story, beautifully written.
Superb In terms of character and dialogue, this is absolutely spot on and up there with Nichols’ usual excellence. Better still, he captures with first hand precision the utter boredom, unpleasantness and misery of English walking holidays, especially in the Lake District.
Brilliant - couldn't put it down! Another epic tale from David Nicholls. Really didn't think he could trump his earlier classic 'One Day' but somehow he's managed it with this brilliant novel. A must buy!!!!
A delight. His best book yet. Wonderful characters and dialogue. Romantic and inspiring. I bet there will be a surge of people wanting to walk the Coast to Coast now.
A hike through the lakes with humou, love lost and found and torrential rain. Loved this book. David Nichols on his usual great form. Taking us through the countryside of the lake district in the course of a story of love lost and found and loneliness. All told with humour.
an entertaining journey I read "One Day" prior to reading this book as I had no knowledge of this author until this latest novel was advertised. I enjoyed both books but the latest is more succinct and probably and easier introduction to this novelist. I would recommend as a light read overall.
Writer resting on his laurels. I was disappointed by this novel. I had watched the TV adaptation of One Day and thoroughly enjoyed it . I hoped that this novel would be as entertaining but it fell far short of my expectations. The main characters were too self absorbed to make it at all interesting and I honestly didn’t care about them by the time I finished the narrative. I gave it three stars because certain parts were quite amusing but I felt indifferent to their fate by about half way through.I can see it being made into a Netflix series and some critics raving about it . A moderate read by an author who is capable of much better than this .
Capturing the magic Loved this book, like all David Nichols books. He is the master of sensitive, humorous, story telling and gets under the skin of his protagonists. Just kept laughing all the way through but really understanding how the characters felt, ways that we all feel or have felt at times - and so the reader is left thinking and remembering moments in the book, long after reading. Like another reviewer read the book over two days - only putting it down when I was forced to. Have already bought another copy to send to a friend for her birthday.
Are you Here An absolute must read !!! Couldn’t put it down ❤️
Coast to Coast Romance This book is beautifully written and, if like me, you are a fan of the Coast to Coast walk and the Lake District, you will enjoy this very easy-to-read story, which takes place in familiar and special surroundings, of how two lonely people get together ... or do they?
Never listen to critics. 'A romance so perfect that it's utterly dull.'  'David Nicholls, the doyen of wistful love, has written a clunker.'  'Before long, it all becomes dull.'  (Claire Allfree, reviewing 'You Are Here')  Just to say that I read these reviews ten days before the book came out and ordered (pre-ordered?) a copy on the spot. I'm very glad that I did, because I enjoyed it very much, read it in 2 days and wished there was more of it. I was laughing out loud a lot of the time.  In fact I put it down about 20pages before the end and left it overnight so I could make it last longer. I loved it.  Moral: never listen to critics.
Superb! This is my favourite book by David Nicholls. It is so well written, in places laugh-out-loud funny, so realistic in his description of walking this route. I didn’t want the book to end. When it did, a big question mark hung in the air- might there be a sequel?
I enjoyed this book I was a former long distance walker until age took its toll so I could empathise with the theme. I loved the book and just couldn't put it down. I'll not give any spoilers. It made me want to explore this author's earlier work.
Beautifully written Sadness, loneliness, hope and humour - David Nicholls writes perceptively of human nature with all its flaws, misunderstandings, familiarity and understanding. I loved this book.
Good Grammar. Compelling story.
Beautiful! I didn’t want it to end.
Pricey Bit to pricey, thought it would of been better; nice relaxing read tho!
Beautiful story, beautiful landscapes, beautifully told. I had given up on trying to find a good book that would hold my attention. This was it. I tried to ration my reading to make it last but I couldn't stop myself reading into the night. Just wonderful.
Another 5⭐️ read by David Nicholls! You Are Here is a wonderful story by a wonderful writer. David Nicholls writing is so deft and effortless making it a pure joy to read. I probably could’ve devoured this in a matter of hours but tried to take breaks to prolong the pleasure of reading it. I can’t remember the last time a book made me laugh out loud whilst contrasting this with poignant moments. Marnie is such a great character and it is lovely to read as the relationship between her and Michael develops.
Brilliant! I have recommended it to so many people.
Love this! No one can make you cry like Nicholls - beautifully written and considered.
Loved it! Just loved it. Towards the end I couldn’t put it down. So good. X
Great holiday read Good for holiday read. Preferred ‘one day’
This book arrived to-day. It is exactly as described,and has been well received. I think this book will be well read and shared around friends.
This is a great feel good book. Loved this book and couldn't put it down. Have gone on to read another of his novels
An really good read. I thoroughly enjoyed this book which is written in an entertaining and (mostly) compelling style. It is a book I looked forward to reading every time I picked it up. The characters in the book were credible, how and what they were doing was interesting and where they were doing it is an attractive part of England. Recommended.
Great book I loved this book, it was relaxing to read and parts of it had mean laughing out loud! Would highly recommend it!
A beautiful book I loved this book. Beautifully written with a crisp humour and relatable characters. I was so sad to finish this wonderful story.
Enjoyed Compulsive reading. Heartlifting.
A good read Loved the style of writing.
David Nicholls Loved this book Funny and sad too Thank goodness the ending was uplifting
Disappointing Ending The book was fairly enjoyable but the ending was disappointing. It ended on a cliff hanger and you never got to find out what happened between Marnie and Michael. I finished the book saying 'Oh is that it?' Wouldn't recommend
A little bit wet It is impossible to dislike a David Nicholls novel, but I did reach the end and wonder why I had bothered reading the whole book. The characters are quite attractive. Marnie is smart, funny, and attractive, but somehow leads a very isolated life. Michael is also quite smart, but deeply insecure. It felt as though it was written as a script for a very gentle 1960s British film. The ending was downright soppy and predictable, and nothing much happened in the rest of the book. It is a gentle way to distract oneself from the times in which we live, but is entirely forgettable.
Gets better as it goes along I found it a little slow to start but stick with it - from half way through onwards, I couldn’t put it down!
Predictable David Nicholls I have read all of DN's books and enjoyed most of them however I felt this was very predictable and without highs or lows. I knew the ending right from the first chapter. Expected more 😕
Fantastic! A thoroughly good read. One of those books you just can’t put down. Mike and Marnie are two believable characters. This would make a good film. Highly recommended.
best book by a country mile The main characters make it his best because of the contrast of enjoying each other and life struggles. Thank you.
Great book  easy read I am enjoying this book easy read and good dicription of relationships,issues all with good humour.
Wonderful Character Interaction Just a great story, beautiful, funny and a joy
Run out of Midsummer Murders? drive north a county or two! A well crafted ‘cosy’ pitched between Trollope, Chesterton and Caroline Graham. The story flows while nailing the characters without over descriptive character development. There is enough Latin and ecclesiastical terms to be relevant to the churched - not enough to be a stumbling block for others. There is an abundance of story based on well observed humanity. Richard Coles knows his county - the English Civil War boundaries do still stand 400+ years later! It’s set in 1988 (another year of Luton Town footballing accomplishment) - a time when even the ‘spare son’ of the landed gentry couldn’t afford to be open about his lasting love affair with another man. But more corrosive was the shame of previous generations born out of marriage and wartime secrets. Woven in, seamlessly, are themes of past sins revealing themselves, offence and murder, how the smaller losses of the present may rekindle heartbreaking losses of the past, justice and mercy, forgiveness and coming to a shared peace after such turmoil. Fr Daniel’s formidable mother, actor brother and growing friendship with the Detective Sergeant form a solid based for the Rector’s crime solving observations. Great holiday reading. As bed time reading, beware the “just one more chapter” trap - you’ll enjoyably read into the early hours.
Very promising first novel Well-written, good rythm but some of the characters, especially the murderer, not that well developed.
Plodding murder mystery Stories about sleuthing clerics are nothing new, Father Brown being perhaps the best known. But one written by an actual Church of England vicar – albeit one who is a former Communard and a regular on radio and TV panel shows – is a bit different.  Canon Daniel Clements wants to bring the parish of Champton St Mary up to date by installing a toilet at the back of the church. Members of the congregation, in particular the powerful Flower Guild, are opposed. Perhaps an unlikely background to murder but still…  The story plays out in a sort of timeless Middle England, although the cultural references place it firmly in the 1980s. Champton may not be St Mary Mead but there’s more than a hint of Miss Marple here in the depiction of the undercurrents and rivalries of village life.  The writing is quite good with some nice descriptive passages but the pace is doggedly pedestrian. You’re about a third of the way in before anyone gets killed and even as you approach the denouement it continues at a steady plod. There are a lot of rather two-dimensional characters many of whom don’t bring much, if anything, to the plot. In fact Daniel’s dogs are more fully rounded than some of the human players. It doesn’t really work well as a whodunnit either as there are few hints at the identity of the killer.  I was looking forward to reading this but I have to say it left me rather disappointed. It’s hard to escape the conclusion that if it didn’t have a celebrity name attached it might have struggled to find a publisher.
Enjoyablenread It was an enjoyable read with Rev Richard Coles personality coming out..it felt that he was reading the story to you
well written and worth a read for that alone The plot was good but the ending was rather disappointing and rushed, giving little time or food for thought to enable the reader to speculate on the identity of the murderer. There were too many characters so it was quite difficult to keep up and it was impossible to get to know or feel anything for them because of this, although they were well formed. I shall be reading Richard Cole’s second novel as I feel sure it can get better.
Cosy crime in need of a caffe ristretto As I love crime novels – Ann Cleeves, Peter Lovesey, Anthony Horowitz, Elly Griffiths - I really wanted to like this, but it was disappointing.  There’s plenty of expert advice online for a budding author wanting to know how to get published in crime fiction, such as, “be clear about the time period, and don’t overwhelm your readers with too many characters in the early chapters.” Oops. Here, the decade in which the plot unfolds is unclear from the get go, which is disconcerting. And so many villagers are thrown at you at the beginning that the book only becomes a page turner when you start flicking backwards to find out who they all are. When the first murder took place, I couldn’t immediately place who the victim was. The murder itself was an event so long coming that in the meantime I began to come up with alternative titles for the book. Then there’s the problem with the main protagonist - Canon Clement. Proactive he is not. Two thirds of the way through, his mother comments on how good at detecting he is when, to my mind, he hasn’t done any.  Now I really like the Reverend Richard Coles and he has a winning writing style, but his publisher has done him a disservice by not being strict enough in the editing. If this manuscript had arrived anonymously in the slush pile, would it have got this far this quickly? For a first-time fiction author, the potential is there, so why wasn’t there more input to make this, the Reverend Coles’ first book, the best it could be? I’m merely a reader but I can see the flaws, so what blinded the publishers to them? Could it be they rushed everything through hoping for instant success on the back of Richard Osman’s excellent Thursday Club series? Well, it worked in a way because this book is a best seller. What it isn’t is a page turner.  If Weidenfield and Nicolson want a successful series, they’d better get a grip, otherwise, they’ll leave themselves open to the charge that the obvious answer to the budding author’s question of how to get published in crime fiction, is “First become a celebrity.”
Didn't hit the spot This is a nice story but sadly lacking. There wasn't a great deal of investigating which is quite important for a whodunnit. Some of the similes were a little obscure, for example, someone was compared to Nellie Boswell, not many people will know who she was. It was a pleasant read but just didn't hit the spot.
Excellent book Most enjoyable and absorbing - highly recommended
Set in the 1980's Once you catch onto the fact that the book is set in the 1980's it makes a bit more sense. This is quite an enjoyable read, but I found myself getting confused to as to who was who and had to keep flicking back to previous chapters to find out how X was related to Y. Canon Clement is a very likable character who lives with his 2 dachsunds (in more than a nod to the author) and his feisty mum, Audrey. I'm not sure whether I would read the next one though.
Enjoyable read Bought for my mum who is an avid reader of crime books. She said it was like the great Rev Coles himself - interesting, enjoyable and just a bit odd!!
Okay book. Okay plot if a bit slow.
Excellent very good read, he understands village church life and people very well.
An enjoyable read A good read, however, I am not a Latin scholar. The continual Latin reference's got a bit tedious as I had to look up the meaning of each of them, in order to make sense of the story.
A Village Whodunnit but for me too many people/suspects A Village Whodunnit but for me too many people/suspects, I loved the humour but it was too slow and there were so many long words, Duumvirale, Tricoter Loggia etc.  Timeline was 1983, lots of nice memories, Wogan, To the manor born, C&A Upstairs Downstairs, Gratton Catalogue etc.  The ending was weak starring into space at a funeral.
A good read A little slow to get going in order to establish the characters, but on the whole an enjoyable read. I would definitely read any sequel.
better than expected I enjoyed this, well written and the plot was engaging. What began as irritating and became infuriating was the repeated use of Latin or literary phrases requiring a pause to look up their meaning where a simpler term would have done as well.
Takes some getting into- not got too far yet I wasn’t expecting a real page turner BUT plentiful use of ecclesiastical language (why use one short and common word when ten obscure, long and “religious” words will do?) ( My wife tells me I personally use three long words when a single, well chosen one, is more precise) I might go back to it but it’s all a bit like the “Archers”, I will probably pick up a du maurier instead!
not as good Didn't find this book as gripping as previous one, a bit disappointing
Confusing characters I like Daniel, his mum and Neil also the de Floures. I kept muddling the other characters and at the end the reasoning got confusing. Liked the churchy bits.
A nice read but a slow mover For me, this wasn’t a book I couldn’t put down. It was about a third of the way through it before anything happened and even then the pace was pedestrian. Clearly written with knowledge of the Church of England and the intricacies of this and village life but too much description for me and not enough plot.
Slow and steady. Slow to get going, too many long ecclesiastical words, too much filler in the way of dog stories. A kind of Midsomer Murders via Heartbeat and All Gas and Gaiters.
A perfectly competent murder mystery I very much enjoyed the style in which this was written and found Canon Clement to be an interesting main character. However getting through the first third of the book was a slog; so many characters being named and introduced by way of Canon Clement describing them rather than us actually meeting them (as it were) made for slow going and left me feeling a little confused. As did the time period, it took me a while to realise this was set at the end of the 1980’s but everything made much more sense once I’d figured it out. I also found myself wondering when something was going to happen and actually made a mental note of the page number on which the first murder finally occurred.  The middle of the book was much better once the characters were actually allowed to show us who they all were and a murder actually took place. I quite enjoyed the interludes of ecclesiastical politics and the denouement, if a little rushed, was satisfying as the clues were all there and reasonably well hidden.  I won’t be rushing out to get the next book in the series but if I see it in the library I’ll certainly pick it up.
Condensation needed Too much 'padding' in the story . Basically good but needs to have a little unnecessary extra detail removed to retain interest!
Very enjoyable A modern yet very traditional take on the murder mystery with amusingly recognisable characters and a very witty undercurrent of fun!
Bit slow I don't like giving low marks but I found the story rather slow and there were a lot of old words I had to look up because I had never seen or heard before, it could have been simplified for idiots like me but the outcome was well explained,I'm sorry to score it a 3 but I think I'm being generous,Shame because I like the Reverend Coles he seems a nice guy what I've seen of him on tv so I'll give the second book a go but in a few months time I think .
Religeous references Pleasant read but there a lot of religeous references, saints, procedures which meant nothing to me so missed the nuances of this. Sorry, will not buy another.
Good holiday read Good holiday read 😁
I liked the portrait of the put-upon vicar and his unhelpfully helpful mother As the title suggests, it's a murder mystery set in a country church. There are rather a lot of stereotypical parishioners (a fearsome flower arranging group, a Lord of the Manor with an unsatisfactory son, ...) and I was surprised to find repeated references to the "Parish Church Council" and eventually felt obloged to checked on the CofE website that the correct word is still "Parochial", in case a change had been made without my knowledge. It's a very odd mistake to have been made by a genuine CofE priest. I wonder if it was a copy editor's work, with the aim of avoiding a word that might be unfamiliar to readers.  I didn’t guess the perpetrator, so as a puzzle it worked; and I liked the portrait of the put-upon vicar and his unhelpfully helpful mother. I was torn between 3 stars and 4, and decided to give the aithor the benefit of the doubt, especially since this is his debut detective novel.
A Church History and Church architecture in an excellent whodunit, written beautifully So much to learn from this neat, surprising book. The liturgy carefully explained but not in an obvious way, but in a rather sweet, celebratory way. Daniel is perhaps the author, but the rest of the cast surely must be individuals from his congregation, they were lovingly drawn. Just a couple of caveats, I kept having to break off from the story to look up the technical terms, I mean by technical, the C of E 'orders of ceremony' which you would be familiar with if you were that increasingly rare phenomena, a regular Church goer. The second is perhaps caused by the first, if the reader keeps having to check the stranger terms, then he loses the plot a little and I had to look back on occasions to remember who all these characters were. As well as that there were too many names beginning with same letter, or were there simply too many characters. I'm a fan of Richard Coles, I like him as a person he remains the same no matter in which programme he appears. Except perhaps one....Did he really appear on Strictly Come Dancing? The thought makes me wince.
Wanted to love this but found it hard going Richard Coles is the most delightful man, funny, talented, kind, and the book he has written reflects all of this. I tried so hard to like it because I like the author so much, but this is somewhat hard going as a read. Richard Osman has cornered this particular market with good reason, his characters are all sharply differentiated and believable, and you care about them - even the villains, but I found the opposite with this book. The characters are mostly sketched in although some of them are very likeable (more of the dachsunds please and our hero's soap star brother Theo and feisty Mum, please!) but although I am a careful reader and can usually get to grips with a large cast of characters and follow a reasonably convoluted plot, most of the villagers merged into one here and I just couldn't get to care about any of them (except the dogs). It usually helps when the hero of a cosy murder mystery is imperilled in some way, Elly Griffith's sublime Ruth Galloway being a prime example, and when there are some relationships that you invest in (Ruth Galloway again) but here the only relationship our detecting vicar seemed to be having was with God and that was lukewarm. Perhaps Coles is an inexperienced writer and will learn his craft as he goes along, certainly he is intelligent and lovely as a human being which is always a good place to start, but he needs to make you care, he needs to involve you totally in his hero's world, and he needs a much less convoluted and far more believable plot where we care about the outcome. There was so much here that had promise but was not followed up on. I'll read the next one Richard, but it's down to you whether I make the effort after that.
Not my cup of tea. I found the book dreary. Not at all what I expected from the reviews. But not everyone likes the same thing!
Weak Main character has some depth but otherwise it reads like a caricature of village life. It shows a view of a very hierarchical mini kingdom. Reasons for murder are also weak as they seem insufficient and poorly woven into the text. I shan't bother with the sequel.
NOT in my opinion a bestseller! I've given this a generous 3* rating, but was inclined to give only 2*.  As I started reading, I wasn't sure which decade this book was set in. Initially, the brand new VW Golf GTI was mentioned, which was first sold here in the UK in 1979. Then further into the book, the Cagney & Lacey tv series was mentioned, and that was first aired in the UK in 1982. However, the storyline doesn't read as though it skipped 3 years......all rather confusing. No mention at all in the book as to the actual year/decade it's set in.  The storyline was very very boring in parts, with more and more characters being brought in. Canon Daniel didn't do much investigating at all. The third murder was rushed into the storyline, then not really talked about. Had the potential to be a good whodunit, but there were far too many pages where the author waffled on.  Very disappointed in the actual motive for the murders, and I felt very deflated with this ending.  Hopefully, the next book in the series will vastly improve.
Pleasant enough read but a bit too cosy I have to admit that I was a bit disappointed with this. I heard Richard Coles talking about the book at the Edinburgh Book Festival this year and thought it sounded a charming read. I do think it's impossible to read this book without casting Rev Richard in the role of Canon Daniel!  In the early part of the book there's a lot of church terminology which might be impenetrable to non Church goers. In fact there was a lot of vocabulary I didn't know in this book, almost as though the author was trying to show how clever he is.  Whether you're a Church goer or not, I'm sure everyone will be able to relate to the uproar caused when a change of some sort is put to a committee. In this case, taking out some pews to install a loo! Anyone who has ever been on a committee will recognise the various characters involved in church or local community life.  I felt this could just as easily have been a book simply about a vicar and his parish as the crime element of the book was almost too cosy (if murder can ever be called cosy!). Daniel wasn't really the amateur sleuth I expected him to be but suddenly solved the crime in the last few chapters.  A pleasant enough read but not really one for me.
Just a country good read. I loved the perspective of the vicar and his parishoners ,gone these days from rural life. The whodunit of the country folk.
Very good 👍 An enjoyable read with lot of detail. You could read it again. The book was slow to start but when it was going there was plenty to think about.
Trollope with added murder Like many others I do have some objection to the ease with which celebrities can get average books published but I have to say I quite enjoyed this. As others have said the build up is very slow and at first the characters difficult to distinguish but I became increasingly engaged. As might be expected the book was heavy on the rituals and concerns of the church which although a non believer, I found interesting. I actually enjoyed his references to theological ideas and also his bold use of language knowing ,as he must, that some readers are alienated by words and ideas they do not understand. I actually enjoy having recourse to a bit of Google when I'm reading. What's the point of only coming across things you already know? I did find it all a bit snobbish though he did try work on that for example by not entirely insisting that lavatory or loo are the only acceptable words for what most of us call the toilet. Daniel came across as very Marple-like with his slow burn deductions and his musings on morality. I think The Rev writes very well, certainly it is a style I quite enjoy. Just one continuity nit pick. What happened to the Hobnobs Richard?
One to enhance your vocabulary but not your library I struggled with Richard Osman’s Thursday Murder Club, but ultimately really enjoyed it and felt that maybe it was just slightly highbrow for me. When I began Murder before Evensong I again wished I was a little more articulate as I was turning to the dictionary, though I didn’t struggle with the opening chapters in the same way. Richard Coles style at first seems similar and he paints some village characters, or rather sketches them and I expected these to be filled out later, but as another reviewer commented, having finished the book there were a few well-drawn men and a stack of ladies who seemed aggressive, self-aggrandising and devoid of compassion and essentially instantly forgettable, such was the lack of differentiation. This didn’t help with following the plot, if there was one. I found the book as heavy going as the walnut cake described therein. I was curious to know when in the past century this was supposed to be and looked up a few references to determine this was late eighties - The style speaks to me of a time long before that and this felt like a story from centuries ago stuck haphazardly in modern times. Most of the book sees events through the Canon’s eyes and I felt that his dozy unawareness of anything going on around him made him an unlikely candidate for a sleuth or a village priest, though he does have a priestly view of all things always suggesting a kinder viewpoint. At best, this felt like notes the Canon had made for himself in preparation for developing into a story later. I kept going and had to wait until the bitter end when the plot was distilled into about two pages most of which was not discernible from anything I had read in the rest of the book. Hard going and repetitive - why do so many authors feel it necessary to devote pages to dogs having their tummies rubbed or performing their nightly rituals? Vicar of Dibley without the humour or the characters that bring warmth and the desire to know what happens to them. Finished the book a couple of hours ago; have forgotten the name of the village and most of its inhabitants. No - I wanted to finish on a positive, but I really did not enjoy this read.
Odd, but enjoyable! I did enjoy this, but it's a bit peculiar, as if the author couldn't make his mind up what kind of book he really wanted to write. To start off with, I thought it was going to be a comic novel, with parishioners sparring over the conversion of part of the church into a lavatory. Then it turned into an ensemble piece, with a motley crew of villagers (like a Christian version of The Archers), and then into a murder mystery. Nothing wrong with mixing the genres, but the other elements rather crowded out the murder puzzle so that I found it difficult to follow that particular thread. I wasn't sure what the period was, or how old Daniel was supposed to be (50s?). I'd have liked a bit more detail about him . . . and possibly less about his sausage dogs! A few bits of show-offiness, such as a quote from Galileo. All the same, I expect I'll buy the follow-up!
Easy reading. Bought for a bit of light reading, Mr Coles has done the trick, doesn’t require too much brain power. Clever writing, I’ve just purchased his second book, hopefully more of the same.,
it’s ok but..... There are too many characters which makes any ‘solution’ very difficult to even contemplate. I didn’t readily identify with the central character, but the policeman in charge did which was not convincingly realistic. I read to the end, but there was something missing for me.
Love Richard Cole.  Didn’t love this. I really didn’t enjoy this much at all. Too many unmemorable characters so kept getting lost. Didn’t hold my attention and nearly gave up.
Enjoyable Bought a second book.
Enjoyable It was an accurate portrayal of village life with everyone in their place and their secrets too. The finale was a little laboured but a good read.
Just doesn't live up to the expectations I really enjoy listening to Richard Coles on the BBC radio 2 pause for thought slot. I was looking forward to this book and as it was to be a humorous murder mystery romp I saved it to read while on holiday. I was disappointed when it failed to deliver. I got to just over half way through on my Kindle and realised I was forcing myself to continue which is a waste of my time. I just didn't like any of the characters in the book. The protagonist Canon Clement was just present in the story without me liking or loathing him. He was just bland. The humour was scant but the plot lines were all there and I feel that a better author would have produced a different result. When I realised that I no longer cared in finding out who had committed the murder it was time to stop reading this and move onto something else. I also felt that the author's use of uncommon vocabulary was him showing off. "Look at me readers, I am clever and know these words and you are going to have to look them up". I thought that pride was a sin.
Not a page turner I like Richard Coles but found this book very slow. Definitely not a typical whodunnit. Although there were two murders these seemed incidental to the story.
A very English murder mystery A charming whodunit set amongst the teacups , homemade jam and blue rinses of a quintessentially English village. Richard Coles writes in a very intelligent and witty style and keeps the reader guessing throughout and his ecclesiastical detective is a joy to behold. If you love Midsomer Murders with a humorous slant then this is your perfect holiday read.
An enjoyable read but dense text and many characters I enjoyed reading the book but it was hard work at times. Many characters are introduced early on but when reappearing there are few helpful reminders of who on earth they are. If I'm honest it meant I was struggling with the denoument because I was having difficulty remembering who was who. Thanks goodness I bought the paperback rather than the Kindle edition - its much easier to flip back to see who a character is!  Also the text is very dense with many (over?) long sentences. Looking back, I opened the book at a random page and was greeted by a 47 word sentence. At one level it was a pleasurable read but maybe the length impairs retention of detail?
Easy read Liked it, easy relaxing read.
Gas gaiters and skullduggery. Gently told tail of village life and death. A mix of Aga saga and Agatha Christie . Decent read but not a nail bitter
Colleen Hoover's best book to date. I'll start my review with a confession - I'm a Colleen Hoover fan. A big one. Huge in fact. I've loved all the books she has written up until now, with each one making me think "wow, that's her best book yet. I love these characters" and "It doesn't get any better than this". And therein lies my problem. My fear in fact, that at some point, I'm going to pick up her new book and just think "oh", that I'm going to be disappointed, feel that I'm missing the intensity of Hopeless, the character connection of Slammed or the romance of Maybe Someday. No one is capable of writing novel after novel that just keep getting better and better, right?  Wrong.  In my opinion, Ugly Love is Colleen Hoover's best book to date. I was instantly drawn to the characters, wanted to find out more of their story and share their emotions with them as I turned every page of this incredible book. It is an utterly beautiful story. Let me try to explain why I love it so much...  We already know from the book's blurb that Miles Archer is not your typical Hoover lead character. Not looking for love, with a ban on questions regarding his past and promising no future HEA, he's hardly Prince Charming material and could, in all honesty, come across as cold, clinical and somewhat heartless. The genius of the book is the balance you get with the alternating chapters. We skip effortlessly between present day, told from our female lead Tate's POV, to chapters written from an eighteen year old Miles, some six years previously. It is in these flashback chapters that we meet the real Miles. This warm, open, loveable, heart-on-his-sleeve eighteen year old, who is so ready to give and receive love, shows us that deep down, present day Miles is not the cold, emotionless character we have been led to believe. Given that Miles was once such an incredibly warm and loving guy, we can only speculate that something unbearably painful must have happened for him to close down emotionally in the way he has. It is this fact that draws you to the character, and keeps us with him throughout the book. I found myself reading the present day chapters, hoping against hope that glimpses of the old Miles would shine through, and of course, every now and then they did, before he would catch himself and reign himself in. As much as I loved the flashback chapters and the joy of seeing such a loveable, poetic side to Miles, I must confess, I read them with a growing sense of dread as I waited to find out just what could have happened in his life to change him so drastically.  I loved Miles, I truly did, but there were also times when I was so mad at him for the, albeit unintentional, pain he put Tate through. Tate Collins is a fantastic character. Independent, kind, warm and fun, we get to see all sides of her via her various relationships, be it her good humoured, sibling bickering with Corbin or her hilarious and touching interactions with Cap (seriously, who writes the BFF for their female lead as an 80 year old male lift attendant?! Genius!!) to her intense attraction to the dark and moody Miles. Tate is an every girl and I think this is why we love her. From the moment the connection is made with Miles and the ground rules are laid out, you hope that she will be able to follow them without getting emotionally attached and hurt but you fear that may prove impossible. I think sometimes we try to kid ourselves. Hold an internal chat that says "this is going to be fine, we can do this" whereas deep down, we know we are lying to ourselves. This is why Tate is so real to me and where I think Colleen's writing excels. The hurt, embarrassment and anguish you feel for Tate during this book is so brilliantly observed and wonderfully written, that your heart breaks for her again and again. I fully expect some readers will criticise Tate's character for being weak, but I think she's far from that. I just find her reactions so true to life. Now I agree, in real life, if Tate were my best friend, and she told me all about her relationship with Miles, I would be advising her to run for the hills, to find someone more deserving of her love and to move on. However, come on, we've all been there, haven't we? When you are the person in the relationship, it is not so easy to just detach your emotions and follow the cold, logical path, is it? We would be robots if that were the case. People make their own decisions, right or wrong, based on emotion and feelings, and that's the type of character I want to read about in my novels, not someone who behaves as though they live their life following The Optimum Relationship Guide for Dummies manual.  I really do not want to give away much of the actual storyline, so I'll say no more about how the book unfolds. I will just say this story has a different feel to it from other Colleen Hoover books. It's a little darker, not containing quite the amount of humour we've seen in her other books although there are light moments, particularly involving the brilliant Cap. It's certainly sexier without being unnecessarily graphic. Even in her sex scenes, there's a wonderful truth to how she writes. I mean honestly, how often in other stories have you read that the hero "rips off" the girl's panties and though "Really? What were they made of, paper? I'm quite sure mine wouldn't give way so easily without first doing an impression of a cheese cutter slicing through a lump of Cheddar", so I love her for injecting some humour into that scene.  Ugly Love is a gorgeous book that both broke my heart and had me crying with joy. Emotional, poetic, gut-wrenching, beautiful and oh so real, it goes to the very top of my favourite books of 2014 list.
My favourite book! 😍 This book is hot!! I was obsessed with it! :uch a sexy, intense book! I don't think I've read something as quick and engrossed as I did Ugly Love! A love story, with some toxicity, nevertheless, emotional, romantic, makes you dream being the main character at times and there was never a dull moment! 😍 You definitely need to try out the book this summer if you haven't read it yet!! 🔥
I really hate to give a CoHo book anything but 5 stars I really hate to give a CoHo book anything but 5 stars, but, it is what it is..  For starters, I really did end up enjoying the story. It took me a while to get there, with a lot of frustrations and irritations along the way, but by 70% or so I found myself zooming through the pages, dying to know where the story was leading to. It's just unfortunate it took nearly three quarters of the book to get there..  For a lot of the book I felt like it was going to be your typical friends with benefits story that will ultimately lead to a relationship and everybody would live happily ever after.. yeah, I couldn't have been more wrong. Upon meeting there is an undeniable attraction between Miles and Tate. They both want each other, but neither of them want anymore than that. No strings sex is their agreement, with only two rules to follow.  "Don't ask about my past, and never expect a future."  Of course Tate agrees to this, never believing that it would come back to bite her on the arse.  I found it pretty repetitive at times. There's only so many times you can read about two people sneaking around, having sex, denying their feelings and repeating.. I know I should enjoy the build up, the anticipation, but for whatever reason it just felt too much here. Miles was keeping major secrets about his past from Tate, which explain why he is so against love and relationships, but I was getting fed up waiting to find out what they were. I felt like I needed to skim/skip to get to the juicy parts, which happened around 70%. Once we got to that part I was hooked and couldn't stop reading until I finished. Those last chapters are what stopped me rating this book only 3 stars. They were brilliant. Beautifully written and so emotional that I was in tears. It was what I had been waiting for throughout the whole book.  "If I were capable of loving someone.. It would be you."  My biggest dislike throughout the book was the writing style. It's not the fact that it's written in dual POV or that the book is told in both past and present. My issue was the way in which the past chapters, in Miles' POV were written. I have no idea the real term for it, but I will just refer to it as 'poem style writing'. I do not wish to read a book written with words on random lines. So, I guess I am crap at poems, but that was exactly how the book was written in my eyes. I found his chapters so distracting being written like that and it really put me off the book. I didn't enjoy them at all, which is a shame because Miles' past was the most interesting aspect of the story. I just couldn't connect to him with the writing as it was.  Overall I did enjoy this book, even though it took me a while, I would just prefer to read books in a normal writing style in future.
unputdownable!! I accidentally downloaded this book thinking it was something else but now I’m hooked to Colleen Hoover books!! I read this in a day and loved it. The characters are relatable and likeable and I just wanted to keep going until I knew what was going to happen. The plot was exciting and sad and funny and more! I highly recommend!
Great Really good book, this author is amazing and this is now the 5th book of hers I’ve read! Highly recommend as has a great storyline. My book arrived damaged but Amazon were so quick to resolve as always!
Not my fave Colleen Hoover, but still worth a read I only gave this a three stars, as it did take me a little while to get in to the story The main character was not easy to like, which made it difficult to engage.  However, midway to the book, I started to get in to it and I particularly liked the unique way Colleen Hoover typed particular events from when one of the characters was "in love". you will see what I mean once you read it.  Overall, still worth a read, but not my fave colleen hoover book.
One of her best! Great book, couldn’t put it down!
So sad to have finished it :( I never write amazon reviews, but I have been in a reading slump for years and years, not too sure how to get out of it, then I read this book. From not reading a novel to the end for years, I finished this in 3 days. I could not put it down... I'm so sad to leave these characters behind, I wish there was another to read!! Very easy read, and gripping. This book made me happy, it made me sad, it made my heart full, it made me laugh, what more do you want from a book?
I needed more of Miles and Tate together This was my second book i've read from this author, the other was ‘it ends with us’, and i did actually prefer this book more as i felt more angst and pain in this read than i did with the other.. i cried with this one and i never did with it ends with us.  I really liked Miles, i adored his love story with his first love and found myself anxious to get to his chapters where he shared his past with rachel as i knew it must’ve been something so awful to pull them apart, that i wasn’t actually sure if i wanted to find out what it was that happened between them to end what they had. He was seriously smitten with her and she really was his everything. They both had a rare kind of love that hurt to think Tate would never get to experience that beautiful side of what Miles’ had to give, and even though she got something back from him in the end, we know it never really compared to what he gave to rachel. That side of his love, sweetness and romance seemed to be reserved for Rachel and Rachel alone, even Tate and Miles’ ending confirmed that for me and i don’t really know how i feel about that… I felt like Rachel and their baby still overshadowed Tate in everything she eventually got to share with Miles😞  Something in Miles’ and Rachel’s love died and it brought darkness and resentment that in their young, slightly naive and immaturity (due to their age and life experience) i don’t think they would have ever been able to heal together and did prove to be something that needed to be worked on apart before they where able to give each other the closure they both needed and deserved. I didn’t really want to fall for the love story of Miles and Rachel because i knew they weren’t going to be end game but i really couldn’t help it. The more i read about them the more guilty i felt that i adored what they had ( i kind of felt like i was betraying Tate in a way, for thinking more of his other love story than i did for miles and hers) I really didn’t want to see that side of Miles and what he was capable of being like while in the present day he was disrespecting Tate so badly. I do feel like if Rachel was still an option, Miles would’ve always stood by her. That’s not to say that probably their love would never of turned to something dark and toxic based on the grief and anger they shared (rachel’s anger towards miles and miles’ anger towards himself) but i do believe that he still would’ve always stuck by rachel, even if what they had did turn to something unhealthy, he would’ve passionately loved her till the very end. It was Rachel who took the option of them ever moving forward together off the table. I wish we had more sweeter moments in miles and Tate’s build up. It was just all pushing and no pulling… Tate pushing for more with Miles and miles pushing away Tate.. until it was just Tate pushing and miles finally stopped pushing back and just started to except what she had to give. Even on their wedding day.. we didn’t really need to know he didn’t cry with happiness, that still could’ve been saved for the day of their baby’s birth but his happiness didn’t need to be down played in order to hype up his feelings for his arrival of baby number 2. i felt like the little we got of Tate and miles’ happy ending all got down played for that one moment at the end and they welcomed the baby arrival. Like the proposal was sweet but that’s all it was… sweet. i felt so much more emotion and passion in what he had to give to Rachel, it was sad we never got to see that with Tate too. We never got the emotional moment of appreciation towards Tate making him a father again, how it felt to see her as a first time mum in that moment, but we sure got all of that during Rachel and Miles’ moment in the hospital together. we got so much from the birth of his son and all we got from the birth of his daughter was him holding back yet again. just highlighting yet another special moment of admiration and appreciation he had for rachel that he seems to have just reserved for her alone and the type of relationship she had with him that Tate would never get a taste off.  Miles seemed to be Tates first everything that truly matters in life, her first love, first marriage, first to experience the path of parenthood together. The wedding being something that was just theirs.. an experience just for them and something special between the two of them should’ve been so much more… especially if the birth of their first child together was going to be less personal to them and just another thing that gets over shadowed by his past and Rachel. Tate would’ve been feeling so much during that moment too, knowing he was holding back again during another intimate moment of theirs.. was just a bit crappy and it’s sad that he wasn’t the one to give the reassurance during that time when he gave rachel so much of it during their first baby’s birth😞 it was Tate yet again talking him round to allow himself to feel the moment. He had so many special moment with his first born, that was special to just him & Rachel, why couldn’t tate have that too? i just never felt that passion, admiration and happiness the second time around. He just always gave Rachel MORE.. more when they met more when they fell in love more when they became pregnant more when they became a family and finally more when they reunited for her to give him the much needed closure in order for him to be able to give himself the permission he thought he needed to even give Tate a chance.  Even though i really did love this book.. just like Tate deserved, i feel like we deserved and needed more of them together! and maybe a little less of Rachel and Miles but 100% more of Miles and Tate because in the end i felt more sorry for what Rachel and miles lost than happiness for what Miles gained in having Tate🥺 i felt like the author was so careful to not downplay what Rachel and Miles shared and experience that she downplayed too much of Tate and miles’ relationship and that’s such a shame because after what Miles went through.. his happy ending deserved to be so much MORE too❤️
beautiful moments that make up for ugly love Another book to add to your list of books that can rip your heart apart and put it together.  As easy to start this book, was falling for its characters. Tate and Miles were growing both into something more than just passion and attraction. Something more than pleasure, something that is second chance and love.  I really enjoyed this book !
Had me feeling every emotion possible! “𝙻𝚘𝚟𝚎 𝚒𝚜𝚗’𝚝 𝚊𝚕𝚠𝚊𝚢𝚜 𝚙𝚛𝚎𝚝𝚝𝚢, 𝚃𝚊𝚝𝚎. 𝚂𝚘𝚖𝚎𝚝𝚒𝚖𝚎𝚜 𝚢𝚘𝚞 𝚜𝚙𝚎𝚗𝚍 𝚊𝚕𝚕 𝚢𝚘𝚞𝚛 𝚝𝚒𝚖𝚎 𝚑𝚘𝚙𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝚒𝚝’𝚕𝚕 𝚎𝚟𝚎𝚗𝚝𝚞𝚊𝚕𝚕𝚢 𝚋𝚎 𝚜𝚘𝚖𝚎𝚝𝚑𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝚍𝚒𝚏𝚏𝚎𝚛𝚎𝚗𝚝. 𝚂𝚘𝚖𝚎𝚝𝚑𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝚋𝚎𝚝𝚝𝚎𝚛. 𝚃𝚑𝚎𝚗, 𝚋𝚎𝚏𝚘𝚛𝚎 𝚢𝚘𝚞 𝚔𝚗𝚘𝚠 𝚒𝚝, 𝚢𝚘𝚞’𝚛𝚎 𝚋𝚊𝚌𝚔 𝚝𝚘 𝚜𝚚𝚞𝚊𝚛𝚎 𝚘𝚗𝚎, 𝚊𝚗𝚍 𝚢𝚘𝚞 𝚕𝚘𝚜𝚝 𝚢𝚘𝚞𝚛 𝚑𝚎𝚊𝚛𝚝 𝚜𝚘𝚖𝚎𝚠𝚑𝚎𝚛𝚎 𝚊𝚕𝚘𝚗𝚐 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚠𝚊𝚢.”  This book is absolutely heartbreaking in the most beautiful way! I loved the dual povs and alternating between Tate’s present and Miles’ past, which gives us a better understanding of why he is the way he is.  I loved the twist and turns, always something happening that was unexpected. The character development was incredible and had me gripped throughout! Had me feeling every emotion possible!  So in love with that way Colleen Hoover writes and the way the book was showcased, their love story and journey was truly beautiful, my only regret was not reading it sooner!
Good Read Dual pov romance novel with a great twist. Will get you out of a reading slump!
Fabulous Thoroughly a really good book well worth a read. You won't be able to put it down once you start.
I'm so conflicted about this book. I was curious enough to download this book after watching the teaser trailer starring Nick Bateman as Miles Archer. It left me SO conflicted. Part of me wanted to love it and another part of me wanted to tear it to shreds. I finished it yesterday and I'm still torn over how I feel about it. If I read it with my heart I think I'd love it, but I couldn't leave my head at the door and that pulled me in a different direction.  I'd never read any of Hoover's books before, so the writing style was a complete surprise to me. I'm going to put my hand up to the fact that I'd assumed she was like dozens of other writers in this field, but I was pleasantly surprised. Her writing is both lyrical and conceptual and I really loved that about it. I loved the way she plays with ideas of liquid and solid and describes the irresistible draw between two people who are that attracted to each other. It seduced my brain in ways it hasn't been since I last read something by Tiffany Reisz.  I loved Tate as a lead character. Despite her helplessness in the face of her feelings, she's strong and vibrant and sassy in a lot of ways. She's no vapid doormat. She knows her mind and she's okay with who she is, despite her moments of vulnerability. I liked that she could see Miles' behaviour as unfair and she even mentions red flags a couple of times in the book and that gives her extra credit as far as I'm concerned. I was emotionally engaged with her and rooting for her. Her internal turmoil is both painful and realistic and absorbing. I liked that she didn't judge anyone (except Dillon, who totally deserved it) and her friendship with Cap is one of the best threads throughout the story.  The cast of supporting characters are also really good. Dillon is superbly and shamelessly creepy. Corbin is a typical big brother and his character rings as truly authentic. I know this because my brother was exactly the same and I didn't date for 9 years. 9 YEARS. Thanks Stuart. Really. Thanks. *facepalm*. That blend of unfair dictation and love is realistic and it was great. Cap is also brilliant - I love his lame jokes and the wisdom he imparts. I'm still laughing over the interrupting cow joke.  This is erotica and while the sex scenes are really well written, they're not so hot and steamy that you get flustered reading them. In a weird way, that's one of the strengths of this book. Because they're not so captivating, they're not the whole focus of the plot. The emotion is. It's a fine line to walk and I think Hoover captures that balance brilliantly.  I think what caused the conflict for me was Miles Archer, the main male character. The way he was written, I really wanted to like him. He's obviously damaged and Hoover didn't go anywhere near that hideous trope of abuse being disguised as love. She wrote him really well. He doesn't claim it's love, he doesn't hide what he is and he makes no excuses for it. He's up front and honest about what he feels he's capable of giving and even when he acts in an unpleasant way, they both knew it was coming. That's where the emotional turmoil is so great - Tate can't help feeling let down but she knows it's because she set herself up for it by wanting what he promised he couldn't give. The problem I have with him is that I didn't buy his reason for being the way that he is. I get that his back story was traumatic but I just didn't feel like it translated into his current mindset.  If I can't buy his damaged back story, then it means that he's just acting like a dick in the present.  And that's where I'm conflicted. Because I really wanted to like him. I felt for him. I wanted him to change, to open his heart, to let it go. I felt sad for him because of his past and the story in the present is so well written that I wanted to give it my whole hearted approval. There was just something missing for me.  I'll maybe feel differently in a few days, I don't know. On the plus side, I'll go and see the film and I'm definitely going to download other books by this author because I have a feeling she could be a new favourite.  Would I recommend it to other readers? Yes, I would. Especially if you read erotica anyway. It's a fresh look at a genre that sorely needs it.
Another great book If you are a Colleen hoover fan you won’t be disappointed - I was easily gripped and read it in about 24 hours
Mid book The condition it came in was perfect. Unfortunately I can’t say it was one of my favourite books. I found the storyline really predictable and i couldn’t really keep up with what it was talking about and when.
Loved it! This is maybe the third or fourth book of Coleen's that I’ve read now. It was a great read and I felt the strong chemistry between the main characters which sometimes isn’t always a strong in some romances I have read. I know people rave about “It ends with us” & “it starts with us” both of which I have throughly enjoyed however i did feel the chemistry between the two main characters of Ugly love shone through more so than those other stories. So much so I finished this book in less than two days! I know some people do not enjoy first person present tense but when it’s written well it’s great and this was written well. I’m now on the hunt for my next Colleen Hoover book!
Not my favourite Colleen book Was an easy read but can’t say it gripped me.
Emotional Rollercoaster I’ve lost count of how many times I’ve read this book, and each time I go on an emotional rollercoaster. The main characters are both written so well and the story is heartbreaking and heartwarming at the same time. It’s definitely one of my favourites.
Fantastic! Love, love, love Colleen Hoover novels…they’re all amazing!
Happy with this Bought as a gift so can't comment on the story. Happy with the book and the delivery.
Really enjoyed Really enjoyed the back and fourth between present day and the years previous. A very good build up between Tate and Miles… A bit heavy on sex scenes which I ended up skimming over in the end to get back to the plot. No twists and turns or suspense but enjoyed reading Miles’ story unfold. No need for a sequel for this one. It’s no verity but it’s a good read.
Didn't want this to end Struggled to get in to this one, but so glad i did eventually, then I didnt want it to end! Then loved the cross over in November 9
a heart braking love story One of the best books iv ever had the pleasure of reading, through out this book I felt every single emotion possible. Fantastic read.
ONE OF MY FAVOURITE COLLEEN HOOVER BOOKS This was my first ever Colleen hoover book I’d ever read and I’m so glad it was!  I tell everyone that this was the first book to ever get me into reading romance because it was and now I’m a lover for smut / dark romance, but this is book where it all started!  This book had my gripped THROUGHOUT I never got bored! I loved the twists and turns, always something happening that was unexpected but OMG the main character 😮‍💨🥵 need I say less. The character development was incredible. And the end! Wow. I have decided to purchase this for a friend who has now gotten into reading again. Cant wait to see what she thinks. Thank YOUUU colleen ❤️
Hmmmm Half way through this book and don't know what to make of I'm not sure if I like it but I don't not like it either
beautiful yet heart-breaking This book was five stars but I'm leaving four due to receiving the wrong book cover which completely ruins the book. Colleen Hoover has such a way with words her writing is one that can break your heart into a million pieces but slowly piece them back together as it goes on. Ugly love is so beautifully written moving story that really tugged on my heart strings I love to annotate my books and I honestly think I went overboard highlighting the majority of the book. Ha. I felt all the emotions reading this book the pain, the heartache… I laughed, cried and at times cringed too. The whole plotline of this book was captivating and the characters felt real their story was so broken and raw at times I had to put the book down to take a breather and compose myself. My heart ached for Tate she couldn’t stop herself from falling for Miles even though he warned her he could never love her back due to his past. Miles was such a great character and I loved him but at some points I really did want to jump into the book and give him a good slap for the unintentional hurt he was causing Tate due to his tortured past. I loved the dual povs and especially Miles’ chapters that would jump from past to present giving us a better idea of why he is the way he is. I also especially adored Tate’s unconventional friendship with Cap the 80 year old lift attendant their bond was beautiful and I absolutely loved it. This book is honestly one that you shouldn’t by pass by its equal parts beautiful and gut wrenching and will have you crying both happy and sad tears.
such a amazing book!! I absolutely loved this book sadly i’m nearly done with it but it is 16+ and i would recommend this book to anyone ❤️
genuinely don’t think another book could top it! would do anything to read this for the first time again. if you love books where the girl fixes the boy you will love this. a mix of romance and a lot of 🌶️🌶️🌶️. was genuinely amazing would 100% recommend
painful and joyful read Immediately invested in the characters which is a sign of this brilliant author. Found this such a difficult subject to become involved with, and read it far too quickly.
Beautifully written poignant heart-wrenching love story This was a beautifully written poignant, heart-wrenching love story that really tugged at my heart strings.  I'm almost ashamed to admit that this is my first Colleen Hoover read. I've heard so much about this author's books and she's been on my TBR list since forever. When I spotted this book on sale on Amazon a few days ago I grabbed a copy and I'm so glad I did. Now I understand the hype, and I totally get it.  I ADORED the writing. Gosh, I was highlighting so much I just gave up in the end. May as well just highlight the entire book. Lol.  The best part of this book was the skillful way the author elicited emotion from the reader. I felt EVERYTHING alongside Miles and Tate. All the pain and the heartache and the hurt. I cried and I laughed and I cringed.  Miles was in so much pain that it was difficult to read at times. I knew his treatment of Tate came from the issues in his past, but he was really horrible to her at times, and it was challenging not to scream at Tate to walk away, because he trampled all over her. However, she was tenacious and determined to cling onto her hope that he would come through and realize what they had.  I liked the way this book was written in dual perspective, switching from present to past. It didn't take much to figure out what had happened six years ago so I can't say it was a major shocker, but it was very emotional all the same. I enjoyed getting Mile's current perspective at the end.  I loved how protective Corbin was of Tate though it was a little OTT at times. My favorite secondary character, without a shadow of a doubt, was Cap. He was awesome and so full of wisdom. He always knew the right thing to say, the right way to act.  I had a few minor issues with this book, but not enough to merit a mention or a reduced rating.  All in all, this was a really great read and I look forward to checking out more of this authors work.  This review will be posted to my blog in due course: My YA NA Book Obsession  Some favorite quotes:  "That's how it is when a person develops an attraction toward someone. He's nowhere, then suddenly he's everywhere, whether you want him to be or not."  "His lips against mine feel like everything. Like living and dying and being reborn.."  "I'm not Tate when I'm near Miles. I'm liquid, and liquid doesn't know how to be firm or stand up for itself. Liquid flows. That's all I want to do with Miles. Flow."  "I don't know if I can do this, Miles. I don't know if I can follow rule number two, because I suddenly want to climb into your future more than I want to climb into the backseat."
Average I didn’t really get this book, I was waiting for the storyline but it just didn’t happen..
Great read Slow to get into but turned out to be a brilliant read. Once I got into the story I couldn’t put it down
Reading now Can put it down
ok its like a wattpad
Exiting book Halfway through the book now and it’s so exiting
Great book So easy to read! Perfect story line!
Not the best I’ve read a lot of books and I can’t say Colleen Hoover is the best author to read if you’re interested in anything other than amateur/high school books. If you’re a beginner to reading I’d definitely start off with one of her heartbreaks.
Books Not into books myself but purchased as an gift and feedback was great recommended author.
Bought as present Bought as a present for someone who loves this author.
Speedy delivery Good
Late to this party! Wow. How have I never met Miles Mikel Archer before? Seriously how?  Ugly Love has not only stolen a little piece of my heart but maybe the whole damn thing. I was completely swept up in Miles and Tate's amazing story. I fell in love with the way Colleen completely shattered my heart and then slowly pieced it back together, I love that I lost myself in all that was unfolding before my eyes and like a starved animal, I devoured it all. Every. Last. Word.  The story is so perfectly balanced, it's angsty, beautiful, ugly, honest and completely raw. There is no sugar coating the pure emotion and the chemistry is off the scale. Whatever you feel from what you read, you will will feel is completely and while heartedly.  No good love story is simple, where would the fun in that be? It has more ups and downs than a rollercoaster, it has the power to break your heart and make you pray that love is strong enough to conquer whatever life decided to throw in its path. Ugly Love has this magical way of combining all of the above and making you hang on to top the very end to find out how it ends. It doesn't help that Miles is well just gah! I love him, all of him! He may be a little messed up, he may be closed off and he may be an absolute tool sometimes but he's a tool I would happily have!! And Tate. Isn't she every one of us women? We have all been in that situation. Hoping that by sticking it out and holding on, no matter how much it kills us, we will eventually get what we want not matter how impossible it seems. The feelings, emotion and decisions, what woman hasn't been there. I certainly have. I think that is what makes Ugly Love able to steal its readers hearts.  I am off to find me more CoHo to read and immerse myself in.  But for those of you who haven't read Ugly Love? Get to it! You won't be disappointed.
10/10 book I loved everything about this book and you really feel how they are feeling
Good Good
Brilliant A very easy read, couldn’t put it down
Brilliant The girls at work were all going on about this book/author and having struggled to get into another book (one of Linwood Barclays first surprisingly as normally love his books!) I decided to give this a go. I do not regret it.  There's definitely similarities at times to 50 shades without a doubt, small references to things that are done in the same manner but it's such a better read in every way.  It's turbulent, painful, heartwarming and way dirtier than I expected!  Would definitely recommend, I'm going to try another one of her books so I may have found my second favourite author here.
Perfect Perfect and great novel to dig into! I gifted it to a family member (a fan of the author) for Christmas and she was very pleased! Lovely book and great condition!
A beautiful heartfelt page turner Couldn't put this down, I felt every emotion and the reality of loving hard is articulated perfectly. My new favourite
A little repetitive This book is a very easy read with a sweet story line, however there was so much s*x that I found myself scanning through these particular parts of the books. I did enjoy the story behind it all buy just got bored with the page after page of s*x
good quality ordered this book came very quick and come in good quality and shape, pages and everything were perfect couldnt ask for better customer service and the price was great
Feminine Power Normally, I avoid ‘celebrity’ books - they bring me out in a rash. However, I find Paloma Faith an interesting character. And this book doesn’t disappoint. Partially, is an attempt to reclaim the word and give it a positive spin. But that is only partially the purpose of it.  She is brutally honest about her own sexuality, miscarriage, motherhood, IVF, the break up of the relationship with her children’s Dad and her own life. Mixed in with that, is her perceptions for what it is like being a woman artist, raising two kids as a single parent and contrasting her own life with her Mother’s.  In broader terms, she talks about her own hopes for what the future of feminism looks like. And if that is the intention of this book - one that changes the world - time will tell. But it’s that non-linear, snapshot settle of the book that shouldn’t work, does. Paloma Faith has added her another string to her bow in being such a skilled, candid and funny writer.  It is a pleasant surprise to find something that is both glitzy and gritty. It’s published by Ebury on June 6th and I thank them for a preview copy. #MILF
MILF MILF by Paloma Faith (Motherhood, Identity, Love and F*ckery) Rating: 3/5 Release Date: 6 June 2024  In this impassioned, witty, and bold manifesto, Paloma Faith delves into the myriad challenges confronting women today. From navigating puberty and sexual awakening to confronting the pressures of patriarchy and the myth of the Supermum, she fearlessly explores these issues.  Infused with Paloma's trademark humour and unfiltered honesty, the book offers a poignant reflection on the struggles of IVF and the early stages of motherhood, celebrating the often unseen labor of women.  Transitioning from discussions on identity and the impact of motherhood to the elusive concept of being a 'good mother,' Paloma advocates for embracing imperfection and prioritising self-care. She shares her own journey of growth alongside her mother, highlighting the evolution of parent-child relationships into adulthood.  Through Paloma's personal anecdotes, readers glimpse the complexities of balancing romantic love, heartbreak, and dating with the responsibilities of motherhood, offering a nuanced portrayal of life's joys and challenges.  Despite my initial anticipation, I found myself disappointed upon reading this book. While I expected a personal exploration of Paloma's experiences, it felt more like a one-sided sermon directed at the reader. The lack of interaction between Paloma and the audience left me feeling as though she was solely focused on imposing her opinions rather than fostering a meaningful connection.  Although the book is a quick read, I'm hesitant to recommend it based on my own experience.
Not for me Having had five children and a career i thought i would find this more interesting than i did. Sadly it felt mostly like someone having a rant and that only there opinion was correct. I struggled through it and became more irritated the further i got. Hate giving such bad feedback but this was not for me. Thank you to netgalley and the publisher for my copy.
Exceptional - six stars! I read this book in one sitting. It was like I was reading my own suppressed and unspoken emotions on the page. I laughed out loud too. Every woman (and man) needs to read Paloma's brilliant words. I may buy the audio now too, as I'd love to hear Paloma read it. I have always admired Paloma but now my respect is at a new level, she is an impressive polymath.
Opinionated and so interesting I really enjoyed the short, punchy chapters, transcriptions and lists that this book delivers all kinds of aspects of Paloma Faith's life experiences and opinions on those. I especially loved the transcribed chats with her Mum, who she clearly has a great relationship with but they differ in their opinions and perspectives and it was so wholesome to read this in their interactions. There's souch honesty, openness and a degree of TMI you'd probably expect from Paloma's writing, but I loved it, it was so interesting to see her point of view on so many topics particularly motherhood and dating.
Brilliant, real, funny portrayal of parenthood I love paloma faith and this is everything you’d expect from her, no such thing as TMI and there were so many times I found myself taking a breath in as it made me think about my own experience. I feel like so many women will feel validated by this book. And it’s a great window into a pop star’s life and realise they’re not totally different from us! Bought my copy in Waterstones - deffo recommend
Wonderful. Can’t wait for the next one. I was dreading reading about Daniel’s heartbreak. I think the character is a wonderful cleric and man. Glad he now has a chance of a happy ending. They are good for each other.  Looking forward to reading the next one. Hope their relationship just continues to grow without becoming a soap opera. For me it is his deep love of God, humility and faithfulness that is charming. Neil’s attraction to that manifest faith and natural questions are also appealing.  Love his mother too - she is hilarious.  Must admit it has put me off monasteries forever.
It’s not just any Air Fryer Book, it’s Becky Excell’s Air Fryer Book Becky Excell has done it once more, I am a fan of this author I must confess, as is all of her books they are well laid out and easy to follow and this one is no different. There are lots of books out there that offer gluten free recipes, but what’s different is this book contains a 100 recipes for dishes that people like myself can no longer enjoy anymore unless we make them ourselves. Since being diagnosed with Coeliac Disease a year go I can no longer just pop out to a local takeaway or restaurant and pick up my favourite burger or chicken as they don’t cater for people like me. I thought and felt that I would never be able to eat any of my favourite food ever again, but I was wrong Becky (the author) understands what it is like to live with it for the rest of our lives as she also has Coeliac disease, so she knows firsthand how it feels, that’s why she writes recipes for dishes we all miss in her books.  Don’t think you can’t buy this book if you don’t have an air fryer, these recipes can be cooked in an oven or hob, there is a handy guide in the front that converts the cooking temperature to ovens. It’s so easy to use, she really thought of everything.  This and her other cookbooks aren’t just for people that need to or choose to avoid gluten, but can be enjoyed by anyone, and you will be hard pushed to tell the difference.  All of her books include options to change/swap ingredients to make the dishes dairy free, lactose free, vegetarian or vegan or for people who follow low FODMAP. I can’t recommend this and the rest of Becky Excell books enough they have literally changed my life for ever.
Clear easy to follow recipes. Once again Becky Excell has created an indispensable book. Firstly it was adapting everyday recipes to gf and now we have that plus time saving adaptations to those recipies using a airfryer and more. The wealth of information at the beginning of the book is invaluable, especially if you are new to airfryers. Hints, tips and no glossing over the practicalities of gf cooking but yet giving a sense that being celiac and enjoying cooking (and eating) is easily within the abilities of even the most amateur of cooks. Ideal for students going off to university who need simple everyday meals made easy.
An absolute gem of gluten free cookbook We have been so excited to get our Becky Excell air fryer book and it hasn't disappointed! My 7 year old son with coeliac couldn't wait to pick out all his favourites for us to try and loved looking at the beautiful bright pictures. He's a huge Becky Excell fan! The recipes are easy to follow with adaptions for dairy free, lactose free, low lactose, vegetarian, vegan and low fodmap. There is some great info for beginners to air fryers to at the start of the book. Thank you Becky Excell for another brilliant book🙏
Exceeded Every Expectation! This book is everything!  Over 100 gluten free recipes to make in the air fryer, and several of those recipes have three different variations too. For anyone who thought an air fryer was just for chips, you need this book!  Yes, it’s great for those everyday essentials, but what about soups, pasta dishes, breaded burgers, fakeaways, pizzas and pies? And for the kids? It’s got to be turkey dinosaurs!  Then the baking… bread, pancakes, doughnuts, cookies, cakes and loads more.  This brilliant book really does have it all! I can’t wait to get stuck in.
Becky does it again! Superb book - been highly excited about its arrival. So many recipes and the info at the start of the book to help newbie-air-fryers is clear and very helpful. I made sweet potato fries first - and then loaded them with tandoori chicken, cheese and spring onions - very yummy! I have a full weekend coming up of air frying and feeling happy about cooking. Teenagers already eagerly waiting to be my guinea pigs! Thanks Becky! 😁
Excellent as always ! Excellent book which reinforces that Gluten Free cooking can be inclusive and fun. Such a well presented and laid out book as always. It is clear a huge amount of thought and professionalism has gone into the making for the recipes and content.  Can’t thank Becky enough for bringing Coeliac disease to the mainstream TV and online audiences. Such an incredible ambassador.  Can’t wait to try the recipes … so many good ones it will be difficult to know where to start 👍
Amazing book with so much information Book gluten airfryer by becky is amazing not just is it gulten free it's dairy free and low fodmap how you can change recipes to you I have all 3 you can not find any other book who has recipes like that covers everything it's got so many brilliant recipes which you would never get to eat normal and so quick to make I would recommend this book to any one not just people gluten free for every one cause food taste so good
Well worth the wait since pre-order day. My copy arrived today and I am busy reading it through. The opening pages are so full of useful information to take on board. As always her recipes are nicely set out with coloured images, very clear instructions and ingredients that are easy to find in supermarkets. She also suggests alternatives to some items for people who need, vegan and dairy free options. An amazing selection of recipes for Quick Breads, Sweet Stuff, Fakeaways, Weeknight Favouites and Starters, Sides & Snacks. I can't wait to try some.
Brilliant, yet again !! I have received this book today, to go with the rest of her books she has produced. Yet again it's absolutely brilliant! Recipes for the foods we like to eat as a family, even though I'm the only celiac. I love the fact that many of the recipes you can freeze and cook from frozen, giving timings and a guide for what the food temperature should be once heated . I will be doing some batch cooking to have a standby for nights when I can't be bothered or the kids are out ( although they will probably eat them as a "snack ") . My teenage boys also love the recipes and using Beckys other books, will often cook for themselves or the family. Can't wait to try these recipes !!
Becky 'Excells' again!! The best yet. I've collected all Beckys books and can honestly say this is my favourite, even though I love all the others too !! The information at the beginning with everything you need to know about airfryers was really helpful. The recipes are so tempting, laid out in an easy to read and understand way with coloured pics to all, which is always a must in a cook book in my opinion. I highly recommend this book to anyone who has to eat gluten free, but even if not the recipes in her books are so tasty you really would find it hard to tell they're gluten free. I'm the only 'gluten free' in my household but cook the recipes for us all and my family love them to.
Great for the muggle cooks to be able to support their coeliac I got the kindle version for my super supportive muggle husband (and king of the air fryer) who does all the cooking so he can learn some new recipes to tempt me with - thanks for the book Becky Excell Gluten Free because I have migraine on top of recently finding out I am coeliac and sometimes ‘comfort’ food is all I can manage to get a calorie in me - this book is going to give me back a sense of emotional security over food where the two conditions cross over and it’s been a bit stressful
Amazing recipes - so many fantastic ideas! I pre-ordered this book as Becky's recipes have been so helpful to me after my coeliac diagnosis. Other author's recipes can be so faffy and difficult, but Becky really understands that all you want are easy recipes to make foods you can't have any more.  I made halloumi popcorn today (delicious) and am already planning to make her scotch eggs and turkey dinosaurs, since you can't buy them in the shops. There will be something for everyone in here.  Thanks again Becky - you really are something special and have created such easy to follow recipes.
Beckys latest book. Gluten Free Air Fryer I like this because Becky is doing all these fantastic recipies for all if us Coeliacs. She is always finding ways to help us. I have all Beckys Cook Books. I do not know how she finds all the time and recipies to write books. Becky is good when she is on TV she is worthy of a cookery proramme if her own. She fights so much to get Gluten Free out there. I for 1 appreciate all the hard work Becky and her Partner along with her team put in to looking after us Coeliacs.
So pleased with this!!! So many gluten free recipes to follow in this latest book from Becky Excell but this time all cooked in an air fryer. There’s something for everyone in this book: snacks, takeaways, dinners, breads and desserts. I have all of the other books and have never been disappointed on how the dish turns out.  I love our gluten free warrior Becky and everything she does to help people understand how easy it is to make something safe for non-gluten eaters to eat. We have so little to choose from in restaurants and shops.
As seen on This morning, the 6th book is here! I have purchased book 6 from Becky Excel now and am so pleased! The recipes look awesome and can't wait to try them when I do purchase an air fryer! Becky is a lovely person and I am so happy to be able to support her to bring awareness for the gluten-free community. Even if you are not gluten free this book still would be a very good purchase as the recipes look really really tasty. Thank you Becky Excel for another great read. 5*!
Jam packed with well written recipes As always, Becky has filled this book with love and lots of easy to follow recipes. These recipes will make it a breeze for anyone who is switching to a gluten free diet. The book includes many recipes for all areas of diet that you can think of, I'm really looking forward to getting cooking.  Thank you Becky for yet another brilliantly thought out book 🥰  I absolutely love the cover, format and the quality of the printing too.
Fantastic book I was so excited to get this book and I wasn’t disappointed. In day 1 I made the sandwich thins. Honestly life changing ! I made honey sweet potato cubes and the orange and honey glazed pork loin. Just so good!!! 😊 I can’t wait to work through it all. Have just got a Ninja outdoor grill and the airfryer in it is huge which makes it even more exciting to make.
Coeliac Bible Another brilliant book by Becky, we have all her books and this one is just as brilliant as the rest of them, thank you for opening up my children’s world of food. Being a coeliac is awful and excludes you from most eating experiences, in school and out, they never miss out and get very excited from preorder to arrival every time!
Another masterpiece from the queen of gluten free Another masterpiece from the queen of gluten free cookery. Great recipes which are simple to follow. Good clear instructions and illustrations. Since my son was diagnosed coeliac Becky Excel has been my saviour and her recipes are so good that the whole family eats them - coeliac or not. I can’t recommend this book and indeed all of her books enough.
Best gluten free recipes for the air fryer ever! Becky Excell is the Queen of gluten free according to Nigella Lawson - I can confirm that this is true! I have all of her cookbooks and was so excited to receive this one. It's full of simple, quick air fryer recipes and they're all gluten free! Even my non gluten free husband is looking forward to some tasty meals. Thanks Becky!
Amazing for easy Gluten free food! Received today and I can’t wait to start making everything inside! I love that it’s all recipes to use in an air fryer and they aren’t all the typically “fried” foods. There is a great mixture of meals, snacks and sweet treats! A great book for anyone starting out gluten free or who wants a good air fryer recipe book!
Another brilliant book. Opened my book as soon as I got home from work. Full of great recipes that I will actually cook. Looking forward to making this delicious food, some of which I wouldn’t have dreamt could be made in an air fryer. Becky’s books are always so good and one will always be on the book stand in my kitchen.
A must for cooking anything gluten free Another amazing book from Becky Excell. Your bible for cooking anything and everything gluten free. Very easy with tips to make dairy free (for me too) and vegan. Using Becky’s book I was able to make a whole Chinese Fakeaway - my 5 guest had no idea it was all gluten and dairy free and raved about it!
Fabulous new book, thanks Becky! What we’ve come to expect - well photographed, delicious recipes, beautifully presented. A great mix of ‘favourites’ and ‘takeaways’ reworked for both gluten free and air fryer rather than oven. Also new recipes of things I wouldn’t have thought of making. You always give such clear instructions but also giving various options as well as df/ vegan/ low fodmap adjustments. 👏👏 Thanks Becky, can’t wait to try these!
For Coeliacs and Gluten Intolerance Simple recipes anyone can make! A must have for those who HAVE to have a gluten free diet. Fed up with second guessing if a regular recipe can be modified and then being disappointed? Then look no further than the Becky Excell books! So pleased she has now done this one specifically for Air Fryers!
Love it I love all of beckys books & ordered this straight away! I was a bit dubious as to how many new air fryer receipies there could actually be but i was very pleasantly suprised! So many unique recipies, most of which i can make with ingredients i already have. This is about to become a new favourite.
Fantastic Received my copy at lunchtime today and spent the afternoon writing my shopping list for all the meals I want to make!! And that would be all of them! What a fantastic book for all of us who need to eat GF and DF, and want to save on fuel bills by using an air fryer. I now have the full set of Becky's books Thank you Becky for making life easier for us
Amazing recipes I cannot wait to get cooking with these recipes. Simple, tasty and quick are three words springing to mind! In our household, it is our 2 daughters who are gluten free but both my husband and I usually eat gluten free too so this is an all round recipe book despite your dietary needs. The toasted sarnies look fab and I really want to try the crispy Parmesan chicken. 10/10 from Becky yet again!
Air frying and gluten free in one Great book, spoilt for choice as to what to make in which order as you want to make everything. Lovely pictures, and great to have gluten free and air frying in one going to make it extra simple to cook now. Can’t wait for the weekend to go get the bits I haven’t got to make the family won’t know what’s hit them.
Lots of brilliant recipes for everyday gluten free cooking Becky's recipes are always reliable and I am so looking forward to trying so many of these.  I also find the opening pages to be extremely useful with recommendations for essential ingredients and how to get the best out of the airfryer.  I am particularly looking forward to trying out the eccles cake recipe!
As always, Becky never fails to surpass expectations I cannot praise Becky Excell and her culinary genius enough, taking the GF element out of the equation - she simply creates incredibly delicious recipes and writes how to do them in concise easy steps. My family, who aren't coeliac like I am, use my Becky Excell recipe books for their own stuff. 10/10 without a doubt. Becky, you've nailed it again!
Absolutely fantastic book What to say, a fantastic book full of brilliant recipes. Have been waiting on this so I can use my air fryer better and these recipes will definitely do this. We are so excited to make so much food. Becky, once again, an amazing book for coeliac's, life changing AGAIN! Thank you 😘
The book I've been waiting for! I've all of Becky's books but this one is the one that we've been asking for, for ages. And it certainly delivers. So much choice! A gluten free life doesn't have to turn you into a pariah or just feeling that you're always missing out. Not now... Thank you Becky for being such an amazing pioneer and champion but still always personally being in touch with those who follow you.
Brilliant for people with intolerances This book is beautifully presented with easy instructions & colourful photography. There are many delicious recipes to ponder over with clear instructions for different dietary needs. Am also impressed by the 3 different methods of cooking the same item to produce three quite different dishes. Quite simply this book is brilliant & not only helps with best use of the air fryer but also provides lovely alternative recipes for those with various dietary problems. Thank you Becky!
Great gf intro to air fryer cooking Starts off with an intro to air frying, then moves on to a wide range of gf family recipes. Different ways to cook chicken, potatoes. Then on to fakeaways, family meals, snacks, breads and sweet stuff. Using ingredients available in most supermarkets. Variations for dairy free, vegans etc. I needed an introduction to using an air fryer, along with clearly explained recipes. And this is it!
A chance to eat some of the things you have been missing As a long term coeliac you just resign yourself to not being able to eat certain foods. The recipe books by Becky Excell, (I have a few now) mean that some of these foods have become possible again. Love my air fryer and love her recipe books so a perfect combination and I can't wait to try a number of things I have not eaten for a long time.
FANTASTIC RECIPES As with all Becky's books this is a Godsend for the Gluten Free Community .This book is now added to all Becky's books now a total of 6 in the set .....so far .Becky is our Ambassador for Ceoliac UK .Beautiful recipes ,well illustrated and easy to follow instructions .
Another awesome Becky Excell book! As always, Becky pulls it out the bag with her gluten-free recipes. Simple to make, always work, and you'd never know you ere eating gluten free food. Thank you Becky for making delicious gluten-free food so easily accessible. And as for adding an air fryer into the mix, amazing!
Becky Excell walks her talk! This book is exactly what the author said it would be & more. Easy & straight forward layout. Accessible ingredients from any supermarket, you've probably got most of the seasonings in your cupboard already. I can't wait to go out tomorrow & buy chicken for the 'Zinger Burgers'
Beautiful recipe book Becky Excell has only gone and done it again! Her books are full of great gluten free recipes, with non dairy alternatives. Making gluten free can sometimes be a struggle but no need when you follow a Becky recipe. The book is also so aesthetically pleasing.  Thank you Becky. Gluten free cooking and baking is a breeze.
Life made even easier for GF folk  AGAIN, thank you!!!!! Again full of very useful information bout Air Friers n how to realise their full potential . But it’s the scrumptious recipes we never thought possible that take centre stage. Who needs an oven, first thing I made for my son in law, Bakewell Scones. Fab-u-lous!!!!!!
Great gf recipe book for air fryers Thank you Becky. Great choice of recipes to try out. Love the alternatives for vegetarians too as I am gluten intolerant and my husband is vegetarian. Cant wait to try them out. Going to try the calzone first as it looks delicious and easy to do.
Absolutely fantastic book Another winner from Becky Excell,. This woman really knows how to make absolutely fabulous gluten free food. Every step is broken down so it’s very easy to follow. My airfryer will now be used for a lot more than just chips. Thank you Becky
Another Amazing Book OMG! Becky you're an Amazing lady. Love love love all of your books. You're ahead of the game. Easy to follow delicious recipes that always have fantastic results. Even our no Gluten free family members love these yummy recipes. Thank you so much for making life easier for people that can't tolerate Gluten.
Gluten free can be so tasty! I have been gluten free for a couple of years, and sometimes struggle to find anything really tasty, so I was looking forward to seeing what Becky Excell showed us in this new book. And I'm not disappointed! Really can't wait to get cooking...
Fantastic. Here is another fantastic, clear, simple and easy to follow book. All the recipies are user friendly with simple to source supermarket ingredients. Would so recommend this and all Beckys previous books. Not just for people who can't tolerate gluten but anyone as a great cookbook. Fantastic.
Becky does it again! Thank you so much for this book Becky, I have been counting down the days until it arrived! It’s an absolute Godsend for people like me who are coeliac and for me now to be able to rustle up quick food in the air fryer.
So much information!!! I haven’t got to the recipes yet, but have learnt so much on how to use my air fryer from the beginning of this book. This is going to be a game changer for me. Well done and thank you Becky.!
Quick recipies for all the gluten free foods I've missed Basically an extension of quick and easy gluten free, with all the extras I missed- especially naans!  As I was looking through I couldn't belive how many gluten free recipies were possible to achieve without spending hours baking or cooking.  Very much looking forward to trying the recipes out!
Lovely recipes Even though I’m not gluten intolerant, I thought I would buy this and try some gluten free recipes . It’s a great book .. lots of really good information about air fryers , lovely easy to read recipes that I will actually cook . Look forward to trying them out..
Incredibly honest and inspirational I couldn’t put this book down… cover to cover in a day. Louise’s story is harrowing, painful, incredibly sad and yet uplifting too. The courage, strength and resilience she has is off the charts, and I defy anyone not to agree once they’ve read this book. It is also beautifully and eloquently written.
I couldn’t put it down I have followed Louise for many years, starting on Made in Chelsea and always really engaged with her and thought she seemed really down to earth. I kept her on instagram and when she opened up about her pregnancy journey, I became really invested in it so decided to purchase the book. I really enjoyed the book, in fact I struggled to put it down! Great backstory about her life and then she is incredibly raw and open about everything she went through. What a strong person. I recommend this book, an inspiring read.
A painful, beautiful read I finished this book a week ago and I’m still in awe at the bravery of Louise in her willingness to be so deeply vulnerable when sharing her experience birthing her son and the trauma that resulted. She offers unflinching honesty and it’s disarming in a way that makes you realise how insane it is that, as a society, we allow women to suffer in silence and have normalised that sometimes birth goes wrong.  Like many women, I had a traumatic birth and negligent care. Reading Louise’s story has helped me offer myself compassion where society doesn’t want to engage. Birthing children is literally what keeps the human race going and yet there is shame and silence around birth trauma.  Beautiful book, an emotional read and an important one.
Real and Raw Well written, read cover to cover in 2 days. Emotional, raw, real, vulnerable. I wasn’t sure what to expect but it was written extremely well. It will help so many people that don’t feel listened too, places to get help when you feel like you are alone! Brave ❤️
A difficult but valuable read I've followed Louise since her Made in Chelsea days and always been intrigued by what she gets up to! I received my copy last Sunday and have already finished her book just a week later - often it takes me about a year to read a book! Very gripping, well-written, heartbreaking, honest, real and inspiring. I can't relate to Louise's struggles but reading this has helped me to understand trauma and those suffering with it. Not an easy read by any stretch but I'm glad that I've finished it!
Healthcare professionals - a must read! Louise has written such a raw, honest account of her experiences. It is well written and accessible. An eye opening read if you’re a healthcare professional too - we so often have little time to sit and talk with our patients about their experience, the NHS being chronically underfunded and understaffed has left us all feeling like we are not giving the best care to our patients, feeling like we have no spare time or energy to give with too many patients to see in a day. This is a reminder as to what it can be like on the patient end, how scary and confusing it is, and how important taking the time to communicate with patients and answer their questions, even when we are busy and overwhelmed ourselves. am so sorry for your experience Louise, but I am so grateful for you for sharing it. I know this will help so many - not just those who have had similar scary health experiences, but it will help the healthcare professionals stop and take a minute to think how they can do small things to make the experience a bit less scary for their patients. I know my practice will change because of it. Thank you.
Honestly the most shocking true story I’ve read I’m a big reader (maybe 4-5 books a week most of my life) and I’ve only ever reviewed I think two! But I can’t get Louise’s story out of my mind. The strength, endurance, courage and heartbreak she has endured shocked me. I’m not the greatest fan of social media because we all end up ‘comparing’ ourselves, our homes, our size, health, children etc. But what I found so utterly compelling about this book and Louise’s story is that for once - at long last - someone is truthful about the utter horror and mess they endured. I still cannot quite believe what she went through. My distrust and fear of medical negligence has never improved over the decades, and to think that in this modern world with all that is available to us, that women are left untreated, full of trauma and kind of ‘abandoned’ to get on with it themselves after giving birth is horrendous. The courage it must have taken for Louise to recount her experience so eloquently was remarkable - when you look at someone who appears to have it all, this book reminds us that we will never know the trauma and awfulness of their ‘real lives’ and that we must be kind to absolutely everyone, not to be judgmental and make hurtful snap decisions on other peoples’ lives. Thank you to Louise for being so open and honest about just how bloody awful things got before thankfully beginning to get better and for the positive way the book ends with the realisation that the challenges and changes in her life have meant that her outlook now is so very different. A very uplifting and positive book which I cannot recommend highly enough.
Real, informative and emotional Due to my own mental health struggles this is actually the first book I've been able to read fully in YEARS. I managed it all in a few days. I related to a lot of what was written. It also goes to show that it doesn't matter your upbringing, finances etc anyone, absolutely anyone can be effected by trauma. The incidents and the aftermath. Louise is so eloquent and seems lovely. The way she's opened up in this book to help others is very admirable
Lucky: Learning to live again by Louise Thompson As soon I received the book in the post on Thursday I have not be able to put it down. I'm certainly learning a lot about child birth trauma, NHS doctors, nurses, midwifes, junior doctors on their appalling behaviour, bedside, manner, refusing to listen, refusing to give you aftercare advice, doctors attitude towards women. My own father is a retired A&E consultant doctor and he was appalled by what yourself Louise went through. The rules are that before you leave hospital you need to pee, drink some water, eat something climb stairs and I only know this from when my own father was in hospital after having a knee and hernia operation. I'm proud of you doing all of your research regarding breast feeding, child birth before you had your traumatic birth experience. I hope you that make a documentary with your lovely sister in law to be in the future Zara because it will give medical professionals, a wake up call as to what goes on in Maternity hospitals. You might even learn something new regarding your health, fertility, stoma. Please watch the program that featured Alex Jones on Making Babies series 1 which is available on UK TV play, which you can download on your smart TV. Some of your health issues that you have now Louise are highlighted in one of the episodes. I will say your lovely partner husband Ryan has been an absolute rock to you whilst you going through all of this. Keep on moving forward, enjoy every special moment with your gorgeous Leo, Ryan. I wish you all the best in your health and if you do fall pregnant again go to the Portland Hospital in London, stand up for yourself, do your research, take notes, I do agree with Ryan though on not wanting to put you through another pregnancy again. From Katherine Zwink in Essex.
Brave account of birth trauma and its aftermath lacks psychological depth of exploration of themes Book review edited: For context with my review- I am a mental health nurse with specialist knowledge of and interest in trauma. I also myself have c- PTSD diagnosed by 2 psychologists. I experienced severe developmental trauma throughout my childhood which was hell on earth.  I really felt for Louise throughout the book and just how raw, personal and painful her experience is for her to discuss with its pages. Although she says she is well on the road to recovery there was a real felt sense of the trauma she has lived through. Survived  There is a part of me however that feels the book publishing has been rushed. The way it is written has this sense too. It is also not as rounded as I would maybe like for a book of this nature. She has gone from insurmountable ptsd symptoms- to then writing and publishing a book about these experiences within a short space of time when it comes to dealing with trauma. A big press launch for the book has taken place with tv appearances many podcasts etc all whilst dealing with her more recent life changing stoma operation. In amongst all of this she has had multiple holidays and helped care for her son Leo who is at the heart of the book who is now grown into a lively toddler. This would be a lot for anyone to deal with happening all within a relatively short period of time, but when it comes to dealing with trauma- dealing with serious health issues and caring for a young child, is a lot-a huge amount of life events, even without going through the process of writing a book too with all that entails.  It is concerning that with Louise’s following and influence that some of the things that Louise has written about from her personal experience maybe but without any professional knowledge or real scientific understanding of how trauma processing and the impact on the brain actually works has gone to publishing without someone picking up on it and making sure what is written is factually correct. This is very important in terms of psycho education around trauma and ptsd. Trauma can be a difficult thing to understand as the complexities on the mind and body are incredibly powerful impacting a persons quality of life and ability to live a full life. Trauma weighs heavy and is like an invisible backpack that try as you might you just can’t put it down. PTSD as a condition isn’t something many have to experience thankfully with only 4% of the population being diagnosed with it, it’s a condition that is often misunderstood.and often just associated with war veterans, indeed it was first known as shell- shock prior to what we now call PTSD. It’s a condition that is sadly more far reaching. Support is available and recovery is possible with the right professional support.  Trauma processing is an important step in recovery and there has to be concern around advocating practices for recovery that are not evidence based like emdr and trauma focused cbt are. In the book Louise refers to purchasing bilateral stimulation equipment to try and do emdr on herself and has also used tapping to do this on herself. Very often trauma survivors are desperate for a quick recovery, however it is so very important that what happens quickly is undone slowly using proper therapeutic techniques by appropriately qualified professionals such as a psychologist or emdr therapist. Practising any techniques without proper supervision by professionals for trauma recovery can lead to more harm than good and I would always urge caution. Any sort of trauma processing should never be done alone. Much of what she has written has caveats- but not all and as a mental health nurse with the knowledge I have around trauma that readers may take what she has written as gospel… with some of what she has written especially around trying emdr techniques on herself some may be influenced to feel that this specialist therapeutic technique can be done without suitable supervision which just simply isn’t the case. The emdr therapist role is to ensure that a safe space is held for the patient to process their trauma safely and help them to deal with anything that the processing brings up. Trying to do this alone has the potential to be dangerous and cause more harm than good.  True recovery at its very essence is worth waiting for. Although adjunct holistic therapies that focuses on the body can be really useful for trauma survivors like the eft tapping and qi gong Louise references there is also a lot of research around the use of yoga for those who have experience abuse and sexual trauma. Martial arts have also shown to be beneficial for many trauma survivors due to its body based nature. These should not be used in isolation and certainly not seen as suitable modalities for healing trauma permanently, more as a way of helping to calm the nervous system which is so often fraught and finding things very hard to deal with when you have ptsd/c-ptsd. The use of evidence based treatments for ptsd/ c-ptsd is essential for substantial meaningful recovery. If ptsd trauma hasn’t been adequately processed and dealt with there is very strong possibility of symptoms continuing to show their ugly heads and having great impact on the ability to live a full and meaningful life.  In the prologue Louise states that she in the first year would have done literally anything to take away that level of pain- I would have chopped off a limb and given up everything I own in a heartbeat to have the chance to turn back the clock..  As someone who is dealing with an upper limb disability affecting my left shoulder and arm- so I have limited range of movement and severe chronic pain so I have to take morphine and gabapentin for nerve pain amongst others every single day. I’ve had three surgeries to try and fix things and copious amounts of physiotherapy. It’s just so flippant when you don’t live with limb disability to say that you would cut off your own arm to go back to how things were before the trauma. The way I became upper limb disabled was very traumatic and living with the consequences everyday also brings its own trauma through things like chronic pain. The impact my upper limb disability has had on my life has changed my life in many ways I was medically retired from my job as a mental health nurse and can no longer participate in all the physical activities like cycling, kayaking, surfing and climbing that I did before. It’s so thoughtless to use language like this when the implication of living with a limb difference isn’t something you can actually understand. I also have found things financially harder since my accident. For someone like Louise with her background that would be difficult for her to truly understand. Kindness matters and what we write matters. Writers have a duty to be sensitive around the needs of others and that includes around themes of disability and limb difference.  In chapter 6 Family planning Louise states she was prescribed a fertility drug as struggling to get pregnant. In a podcast called The good glow Louise a few years ago shetalks of being prescribed a fertility drug about 5 mins in but also states not needing to take it as she was already pregnant. Truth when discussing fertility issues in a public arena is so important, to imply you needed a fertility drug to help you get pregnant when so many people actually struggle to have families due to fertility issues is wrong. It’s like claiming a trauma that actually isn’t yours as you’ve never experienced it. It would have been more honest to actually state this in the book rather than leaving the reader with the feeling that the fertility issues they faced were more serious than they were. Yes she had a miscarriage and that is terrible but from the sounds of it she got pregnant again relatively quickly again after.  Louise ends her book in chapter 22 with the words… ‘I think the ptsd will always be a part of me ….as I get better in all other areas it will diminish as long as I pay attention to all the good things that are flourishing in my life working on projects that excite me being able to help people, my relationship with my son and my partner are continuing to thrive it will become less and less significant… ‘  If only it’s as easy for everyone with ptsd/c-ptsd/trauma….for many people with ptsd and especially those with cptsd time is not a healer, focusing on what is good, trying to focus on building positive relationships is just not possible in a true and fulfilling long term way until the trauma behind the condition is processed and dealt with first in a proper therapeutic manner that involves work over a sustained and prolonged period of time with a trauma specialist therapist/psychologist/psychiatrist. Incidentally only a psychologist/psychiatrist can actually diagnose ptsd/c-ptsd- it isn’t uncommon in todays society for people to self diagnose saying they have a bit of ptsd after experiencing something they find difficult. The reality is however that these are serious conditions and these labels shouldn’t just be thrown around like candy. The impact on a person with the condition is very serious and made of anything but this sugary sweet delight. Raw and painful so much so that one may wonder if anything but darkness will ever be their reality. In ch17 and at various other points in the book What (and what not) to do.This is the thing she draws the reader close attention to in her book about how she was offended by a friend’s well meaning quip to try to be more positive and think about the good things in her life saying it just wasn’t possible as her trauma and her response to it was just so terrible and how insensitive her friend was for even suggesting it and here she is doing exactly that. The thing is the darkness of traumatic experience can swallow you up- I should know I’ve been there many times. Hope is one of the most powerful forces on the planet and even when things have been there hardest and most painful I had to have hope that things could get better. We all need the light to survive. Like plants- we also find it the hardest to thrive without light. It’s interesting how she speaks of an unnamed friend friend that she fell out with for suggesting for her to be positive- yet when Binky made suggestions to try and help like going out for a walk even when she didn’t want to this was okay. The dissonance and mis-alignment in this really struck me. Many with serious ptsd and complex ptsd are held in the vice life grip of their traumatic experiences until it is successfully processed and treated. This often means experiencing debilitating symptoms as the body and mind are stuck in the trauma- fight-flight- freeze- submit response- often through re- experiencing phenomena like flashbacks- nightmares or somatic body based symptoms where trauma is stuck as the body keeps the score. There can also be other aspects like dissociative experiences which may be in the form of daydreaming or running on auto pilot or not feeling anything at all in the form of numbness. Everyone’s experience is different and as individual as they are and makes actually living day to day virtually impossible. Appropriate therapy is actually first line treatment for both with medication as a secondary intervention. Successful therapeutic intervention has to wait at least 12 weeks and take place when the person is in a safe enough space both physically and mentally to do the work. To be able to establish what is known as a window of tolerance in order to commence work and over time make this window larger so the persons state is regulated rather than dysregulated being in states of hyperarousal where the fight or flight response has kicked in- so agitated- angry- panicked or frightened or in a state of hypoarousal-so the freeze/submit- shut down response has occurred in the body in response to a perceived threat - so this brings a sense of numbness- depression shame and hopelessness  She goes on to say in ch 22 that she still cries whenever she talks about her story- there have been many tv appearances- Lorraine, itv news to discuss her book and her trauma- no tears were shed- although maybe crying on tv during interviews maybe wouldn’t be professional- it’s interesting I feel to note the often dissonance between her words and what actually plays out in reality. Like the many trips out and holidays both uk and abroad when she describes her traumatic response and daily reality as being so bad. I know more than most that people can have good days and bad days when dealing with trauma and ptsd and recovery is not linear, but it’s hard to put the hardships she describes in her book and what plays out on social media together. It’s like a jigsaw where the pieces don’t fit. So many holidays, trips abroad, days out… all whilst apparently in the throes of terrible ptsd symptoms and regularly needing support in a recent social media post she said it was like she had been under a rock for the best past of 4 years and it felt so good to be out out out. The narrative and the reality just do not fit. I’ve been on breaks when on my own recovery journey but only at times when I’m feeling strong enough to go. It’s just it can sound like a lot of the time in what she writes like she’s a hermit that doesn’t do anything as her ptsd is just so bad yet the reality is she has been on multiple holidays abroad including Greece and skiing in Switzerland and multiple uk staycations. I’d much rather someone be properly authentic and write their lived experience as it is when dealing with ptsd recovery and find honour and integrity within what they write especially as cptsd is a condition I’ve lived with in a personal level for as long as I can remember.  Ch 22- Please trust that your brain is capable of healing, Even as you sleep it is processing so many memories it is getting better…  For many people dealing with trauma and ptsd/c-ptsd this just isn’t the case … sleep tends to be fraught with emotionally charged dreams, “over and over,” the sleeping brain can typically bring up emotional memories, process them, and remove their emotional charge,It’s a process that may be explained by an evolutionary drive to evaluate important memories, including those tied to fear. But in post-traumatic sleep disorder (PTSD) patients, the brain seems to bring bad dreams back night after night, driven to evaluate fear memories but unable to ever remove their emotional charge. Louise may have been lucky enough to not have experienced debilitating nightmares- flashbacks in the day time are bad enough- but when you feel like to never get any rest from the trauma- not even as you dream away the night- that is hell on earth. My nightmares that I have experienced since childhood got so bad I wasn’t sleeping as I was so afraid of them as I would wake up screaming night after night in a pool of sweat. It was the first thing my psychologist worked with me on- it was the thing that showed me just how good he was and that he could actually help me. The brain works differently when you have ptsd- c-ptsd so it is very simplistic to just try and assure people with just stipulating that just by sleeping people will just get better from trauma and ptsd that you are processing so many memories and you will get better. The impact of trauma on sleep has long been established. Over more than a century of research has established the fact that sleep benefits the retention of memory. However diagnoses of ptsd can disrupt this significantly. Nightmares are one of the key re- experiencing symptoms of ptsd and show that the trauma is ‘stuck’ on a loop- like a record player constantly repeating the scariest track imaginable over and over and over again. Often with trauma and ptsd/c-ptsd sleep and the proper rest needed for the body and mind to recover is hard to come by. If you experience nightmares you will know that they are far from restful and will leave you feeling exhausted both mentally and physically. Many experience debilitating insomnia and just can’t find the rest they long for, I have gone through stages of this myself my body on such high alert that it just doesnt feel safe enough to let me rest or find sleep. Sleep is essential for our wellbeing and lack of sleep can leave us feeling horrendous that is why it is used as a form of torture. For those of us who have experienced trauma proper sleep and rest is hard fought for. For some it can go the other way and the body can sleep for extended periods of time. I remember discussing this with my psychologist as I was finding in therapy that I was often sleeping for 12-14 hrs straight sometimes longer. She reassured me that this normal and is a way of the body almost going into a hibernation like state to ensure it gets the rest that it needs. Traumatic experiences and the ptsd/c-ptsd that can arise from it takes it toll on our bodies, so it is therefore logical that it would need extended periods of rest to recover from this in order to be able to keep functioning in any kind of normality. REM sleep can be described as a kind of “Wild West” in terms of what we know about its relationship with memory. The sleep stage is thought to be important for processing emotional memories, and experiments have shown that rhythmic interactions between the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex during REM sleep reduce the expression of fear-associated memories. But it’s unclear just how this works. What I know from research, my work and as someone recovering from cptsd is that it is possible to find restful sleep after the traumatic memories have been processed with specialist support.  …A further retort Louise uses in the book ‘Trauma replaces trauma- ‘ can be viewed as problematic.  It’s just not just the case that when something terrible happens… the worse terrible trauma imaginable then something else terrible happens and you just forget the other terrible thing that happened before that took up so much space in your life previously just trying to cope with and manage on a day to day basis. This is especially true for those like me who have a diagnoses of complex ptsd- cptsd- this subtype of ptsd happens to people who have experienced serious trauma/abuse that happens over a prolonged period of time- often years with a relentless nature to it and lacks the capacity to escape from it or be able to find any sort of safety away from the trauma. This is the case in trauma that occurs in childhood- such as sexual abuse, domestic violence, severe neglect and to War and torture victims. The impact for this type of trauma can be lifelong and needs specialist support and intervention to overcome.  For those like me with c-ptsd the traumatic life experience of a serious nature have been repeated over many years- never to be replaced or forgotten. Louise has been through a lot and sharing her story so that others who have been through something similar won’t feel so alone is very brave- there does need to be caution in making sure that what is shared in regards to what helps ptsd and trauma recovery take place in a real and authentic way is evidence based. I for one am glad that Louise is feeling so much better in herself given what she has gone through. She is very brave.
Amazing read Firstly, many congratulations Louise on the success of “Lucky”. I don’t usually leave reviews , but on this occasion I felt I needed too. I have followed Louise since her MIC days when I too was a teenager , and have continued to follow her on her social media for many years, after seeing her posts and stories on Instagram I had to buy her book. This has been the first book I’ve bought and read in years, furthermore , the first book I’ve read from start to finish in a couple of days. Thank you for being so open and honest and sharing with the world your story, I know this will help others in their journeys of dealing with PTSD and trauma. “Lucky” has been written so beautifully, which is ironic considering the ordeal that Louise has been through. You are an inspiration to many of us ,I am in complete awe of her strength considering what she has been through. I wish for your recovery to continue and for you and your family to have a long and happy future. I would 100% recommend this book to anyone
Well done Louise. Highly recommend this, and not just for anyone that has previously suffered mental health and/or birth trauma, literally everyone. The insight into the lack of maternity services is brilliant, raising awareness to something that desperately needs to change. I also particularly loved how she talks about relationships, and people, it definitely makes you think everything, from our mindsets and to how we treat one another. This book really resonated with me. I suffered for many many years with mental health and whilst it wasn't because of birth trauma, there were so many parts of Louise's story that I was nodding along to. I'll be honest, some of it I found triggering but that's testament to the raw honesty in her writing. It was also humbling to know that some of how I feel, and my thoughts, both the good and bad, aren't totally absurd! There will always be people that will critize but I feel like the negative reviews here are unfair, especially the one undermining Louise's trauma for not being traumatic enough. Nobody should judge another for what they consider trauma, and definitely not after someone has been brave enough to tell their story. Thank you for sharing your story with us Louise, keep being you and don't ever give up! This really will help others.
Captivating I was shocked, I cried, I got angry. Louise's book completely captivated me. She has been through the most horrendous experiences but she still recounted them with genuine honesty and eloquence. Probably the most incredible and yet heartbreaking story that culminated in such joy. But boy did she have to go through hell to get there. From reading 'Lucky' I have so much admiration and pride in Louise. She's ended up one of the most amazing women from her torturous journey, but she came out the other end stronger and wiser and fired up to do as much as she can to help other women who go through similar journeys to come out the other end with more help and support. Such an amazing book I am going to have to read it all again. This time I'll pace myself and not stay up all night to finish it ! X
A friend in need At a similar time to Louise starting to talk about her trauma on social media, I had been diagnosed with a very aggressive form of bowel cancer at 4 months post partum.  Whilst our stories are different, the trauma response was extremely similar. To read this book, to know my response was not abnormal, that other people have felt this too, but also to read of the sheer determination to get better and the rewards of that, to view life differently and to have a desire to help people, was extremely powerful for me. It truly feels like a best friend holding your hand saying we are in this together but there’s help out there and there is hope.  Whether you are just here for the story or because you’re here for some guidance in your own story, this book really will help you view life, trauma, mental illness and love differently.
An Absolute Inspiration I've followed Louise on Instagram since 2015 and always enjoyed reading the vivid descriptions of her vacations in the Maldives, Bali and other exotic destinations.  Then, in November 2021, her idyllic life changed completely and she began posting about her son Leo's traumatic birth and her subsequent PTSD. She never fully explained what had happened, but this powerful book finally fills in the gaps.  On three separate occasions, Louise experienced a life threatening, 'torrential' vaginal haemorrhage, losing 3-5 litres of blood each time.  I am in complete agreement with her partner Ryan when he says that she shouldn't even contemplate becoming pregnant again. Please don't, Louise!  Your next door neighbours Sam Thompson and Zara Mc Dermott will no doubt have a baby soon, and that child will be like a brother or sister to little Leo.  The upsetting thing is that since she finished writing this book, Louise has experienced another major health crisis and now has a stoma to deal with. On Instagram, she is remarkably cheerful about this and is honestly an absolute inspiration.  She writes beautifully and I hope that Lucky is the first of many memoirs from her.
A difficult, but important read Having never watched Made in Chelsea, I had no idea who Louise Thompson was until stories about her health began to appear in the press after the birth of her son. I then began following her journey on social media.  As I have identified with so much of what she has shared along the way, it was only natural that I would purchase her book as soon as it was released.  It is a gripping but difficult read-the ‘trigger warning’ is not for nothing, as it certainly hit hard for me, as someone who has had some similar issues. However, it is a story that needs to be told-about maternity care (or the lack of it), mental health and the importance of advocating for yourself in healthcare.  I can only applaud Louise for her bravery and honesty. She writes brilliantly, in a frank and engaging style, and I defy anyone that reads this not to take something away from it.
Been waiting for this moment. Have yet to read this but why Im already leaving this review is simply because I am 100% sure that this book is going to be brilliant and bring a tear to my eye, I suffered my own birth trauma many years ago and had suffered many things after nothing as frightening as Louise but took 6 years to be properly recovered mentally and physically. I had no support from my family except my husband and I truly dont know how I got to the positive side but one thing I admire about Louise your so amazing the road you have journeyed on and the person you are today. This is the one story I cannot wait to begin, with a good cuppa and a strained lower back, this is the perfect time for a good cry and a wonderful story.
Truthful and Brilliantly Written Although I do not have any children so cannot relate to that aspect, Louise has written this book as though we have been through this journey alongside her. I would love Louise to know how much support she has from so many people that are lucky to have never experienced the trauma herself and Ryan have endured. The book is so honest. She gives trigger warnings at particularly harrowing parts. This book is a reminder to those of us who are lucky enough to be healthy in mind and body and for those struggling that there is light at the end of the tunnel. I like that she advises that rather than ill informed platitudes that sometimes companiable silence or a quick text is better. From someone who can say stupid things sometimes this is a good lesson!!
So moving and heartfelt I was hesitant about reading this on holiday as I thought it would be upsetting but I finished it in 3 days and couldn’t put it down. Yes, it made me cry but it is also full of hope and highlights what women sometimes have to endure because women have been giving birth since the start of time so it is treated as a natural process. However it is also one of the most dangerous things a woman can go through. Louise highlights the importance of speaking up when you know what your own body can handle. She is amazing.
Incredibly moving yet positively motivating… I could not put this book down… Having followed Louise’s journey I was so intrigued to hear her story and never thought it would take me down the path it did… I laughed, cried, raged, connected - every emotion you can imagine! I found the book so incredibly moving but also know this book will speak to so many in such a positive way too which feels like the main goal… Louise, what an incredible inspiration you are to so many, I’m so sorry for what you went through but thankyou for sharing your journey to so many and being so brutally honest!
the perfect book this book was awesome! perfect cosy read! 10/5 stars  CHARACTERS: Both MCs were flawed and had trauma that informed a lot of their actions. But they were written in a way that made them feel real and lovable.  PLOT: The perfect blend of gory, dark, spicy and hilarious.  SPICE: Wasn't a big part of the book but there were a few scenes and they were well written and pretty saucy. 🌶️🌶️🌶️/5  Brynne is now one of my instant buy/read authors 💕
Dark and thrilling Fabulous
masterpiece I literally could not stop!! I had read the great reviews and was excited because I love this style of book, so not only did I purchase the book, I purchased the audio as well because I wanted the whole experience. Well… excitement isn’t exactly the right word to use here because reading/listening to this book became an ADDICTION.  The slow burn, the witty dialogue, the laughter and of course the swooning moments…. Ahhhhh… What a fantastic book.  I can’t believe I laughed out loud during the dinner chapter as I cringed with Sloane over Rowan’s absolute LOVE for the dish. That scene had me cackling long after it was finished.  Butcher and Blackbird were a match made in heaven, and after reading the epilogue… I am SO excited for more!!!
It'll go where you think it will go It was an easy to read, true to self, love story that captivates what it truly means to feel accepted, or loveable. It's a Dexter take on life.
Genuinely laughed out loud "I'm 100% positive that I hate you" "And I'm 100% positive you'll love me one day"  Imagine explaining your meet-cute story as bumping into your future love when you both try to unalive the same man.  Butcher & Blackbird is a dark romantic comedy about two serial killers who kill other serial killers. This book was so genuinely funny and I questioned my sanity when I realised I was laughing at something that contained accidental cannibalism.  The two main characters, Rowan and Sloane, find themselves meeting in an unusual scenario that involves a lot of maggots. The tension between them was perfect and the dialogue was so cute, I found myself giggling like a teenager. The banter between them is a highlight of the book.  The one thing that bumped this down a star for me was the multiple "3 months later", "1 year later" etc. it just seemed a little unnecessary and drew me away from the story.  I need the rest of the series immediately!  🩷 He falls first 🩷 Reverse grumpy x sunshine 🩷 Friends to lovers 🩷 Touch her and die
Audiobook review! 𝕬𝖚𝖉𝖎𝖔𝖇𝖔𝖔𝖐 𝕽𝖊𝖛𝖎𝖊𝖜  ​I went into this not really knowing what to expect, only the warning that it could get gorey. I don’t usually go for the serial killer vibes but this story held such an interesting mix of genres- dark rom-com and I was curious! The narrators really made this the full five stars for me. The emotion and character portrayal was just spot on. I think it’s safe to say that Joe Arden’s Irish accent IS MY THING 🥵.  To say that I felt so many different emotions while reading would be an understatement. I pined, smiled, shrieked, gagged, giggled and even had a little tear. This book seemed to mash so many elements together but it worked so seamlessly. The whole serial killers that kill serial killers but fall in love vibe had me absolutely hooked. The romance and humour was all there, the romance delivering much more than I expected. Make sure to check those TW’s though because it is definitely dark and gorey, with graphic and explicit on page content (I did gag a handful of times and will not look at a tub of ice cream the same).  I don’t think I have ever read any characters quite like Rowan & Sloane. Such an intriguing mix of personality traits and past trauma. I was surprised with how invested I became in their relationship. The slow burn between them had me pining and swooning so hard. The third act spice went from warm to raging hot inferno pretty damn quick and I ate up every minute of it (not like a tub of ice-cream). The mouth on Rowan, with the Irish accent by Joe… I can’t say this enough… it was everything. I am ready to sell my husband on the black market just to upgrade to someone with THAT VOICE. Feckin’ eejit!  Overall this was a fantastic read, unlike anything I’d ever read before! Highly recommend the audiobook!
Was not expecting a 5⭐️ read When I first started this book I didn’t know if I’d like it or not, I’d heard very mixed reviews and I honestly don’t think I’ve ever read anything like it before, since I’m normally a fantasy reader. I read the first 2 chapters when it arrived from Amazon, and I stopped… largely because I was already reading another book I needed to finish. After reading those first chapters I didn’t think this book would be for me, but bestie convinced me we should tackle it together on our camping trip, so I picked it up and damned me if I couldn’t put it down.  I loved the switching POVs between Sloane and Rowan each POV distinctly different, I loved their banter and chemistry. I really enjoyed how Brynne has played out Sloane’s insecurities, showing Sloane holding her own power and owning it as her relationship with Rowan evolves. I found myself constantly amused by how cocky Rowan is, he has his own issues (duh just look at their hobby) but he wears it in a very different way to Sloane. In so many ways these characters complement each other. I also really liked how Brynne has been descriptive but not excessively gross.  I did give this a 5⭐️ rating cos I loved it so much but it’s not without its flaws. There were several moments where my immediate thought was well that’s problematic… and no it wasn’t the murder or the lengthy list of Trigger Warnings or their antics in bed, every one has their kinks… rather the ongoing casual sexism from Rowan. He literally falls in love with a serial killer, with the same mission in life, who has managed perfectly fine on her own for the most part, only for him to become insanely overprotective. I also found moments to be unrealistic such as the number of people who seem to know about their hobby or the camera in the kitchen… among other things.  Overall while I can see and understand why some people disliked this book, I thoroughly enjoyed it and have Leather and Lark on pre-order.
Unlikely love story Amongst all the killings and gore is a love story that sucks you in. The banter between the characters is hilarious. The twist was unexpected. Can’t wait for the next book
Surprisingly cute & romantic!! Unexpected!  3.5/5 🌶️  This was surprisingly cute! I was not expecting it, I was actually very close to DNF this book but someone I like in my book club said that they loved it so I had to give it another chance. I have to say the first couple of chapters , I found confronting because of the core even though I am a true crime and Dexter fan. But the romance and tension takes over everything else. And it was freaking hilarious.  – Dark romance. - serial unalivers - soft stalking - spicy - hilarious, humorous - competition / friendly rivalry
LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE I literally could not put this book down! I work in forensics and just loved every second reading this book. I laughed out loud at the banter and call me a psycho but it had me craving ice cream haha i cannot wait to read leather and lark 🥰
I fell in love with a serial killer and I have no regrets The hype is real!! This book is so freaking cool and so different. Who knew you could crack up laughing over cannibalism? Honestly the first page or two were probably the grossest parts of the book but that probably had something to do with me eating my lunch at the time. Other than that I pretty much laughed and swooned through the whole book. Who knew you could fall in love with a serial killer and actually cheer them on. Rowan and Sloane were romantic bliss together and I don't know if I should be disturbed that I could relate to them in parts. I do know that the slow burn nearly did me in, but was totally worth it and Rowan turned me to mush. This book was brilliant and I can't wait for the next one - I need it now!
I loved this book so much I really enjoyed this book so much, the banter between the MMC and the FMC is great!
4.5☆ Dark Romcom is my new love 🖤 I loved this book way more than I thought I would. This book has a little of everything all rolled into one. Rowan was just the sweetest book bf. I loved him with Sloana and vice versa. This book had me cackling more than anything fhe humor was top notch 💕 I can't wait for the brothers books.  Their paths cross in an unlikely way. He's The Boston Butcher, and she's The Orb Weaver. Two known serial kill3rs. But one thing sets them apart. Their victims. They only hunt serial kill3rs, unsolved cases. Butcher finds his Blackbird locked in a cage that her latest target managed to get her in b4 he kicked the bucket with her knif3 lodged in his throat. Butcher obviously frees her, and they go to dinner. Naturally. They start up a yearly competition, once a year they're given a destination and then they have to research and track down the serial kill3r in that area. The first one to find them wins and gets to unalive the target. Best out of 5. So they meet each year, but each time gets harder to walk away and return back to their lives. They never expected to find someone who sees the darker twisted side of them, and it makes them feel like coming home. But who says serial kill3rs can't find love too and what could be more fun than taking them down together. Hallmark probably won't look to them for inspiration on their next big hit, but who needs sweet love stories when you can sweet bl00dy moments with a side of homemade cookies and cream ice cream.  Definitely Recommend Reading 📚
Amazing read but not for the squeamish I was a little hesitant going into this one because I keep my expectations low with dark romance that is also claimed to be a comedy. Brynne 100% fulfilled this, I was laughing and grossed out at the same time. This book hit me right in my black little heart and dark sense of humour. You will honestly go from cringing one moment to laughing out loud the next.  Sloan and Rowan play off each other perfectly. Their characters are not written to be over-the-top quirky, they are blessedly balanced and just have some odd urges that they have chosen to utilize in a way that benefits the community. I absolutely adore their banter and throwing in Lark and Rowan's brothers just takes it to the next level.  This is definitely a slow burn and honestly, a bit of a slow build up but once we get the momentum the story just flows from one emotion to the next. Once we get to those spicey scenes, OH MY GOSH! Rowan flips a switch and is completely on! This, thankfully, doesn't take over the whole plot and everything keeps moving along, even if their relationship does step up quite quickly from there.  Overall I highly recommend, if you take the trigger warnings seriously you will be fine because the accidental cannibalism was ok, it was the "not so accidental" cannibalism that got me worse. If you read this you'll see what I mean when you get there. Enjoy!
Butcher and blackbird Fantastic book but came bent and damaged :(
Fantastic read! I was totally pulled into this dark little world, couldn’t put the book down! It was such a fantastic read and I can’t wait for the next book.
Spicy & Gruesome - What More Could You Ask For? When two specialty hunters collide in an annual game of blood and suffering, one that pits them against the most dangerous monsters in the country and their friendship develops into something more. Can Rowan and Sloane dig themselves out of a game of graves? Or have they finally met their match?  What a fantastic start to my reading year! Butcher & Blackbird had everything a girl could possible want - Dexter like vibes, gruesome scenes, great comedy and the all-important toe curling spice. While I certainly wasn't concerned with the content warning, I was definitely intrigued at one could weave all of that into a dark romance but Brynne Weaver did it expertly. It's been a very long time since I have raced at recommending a book to everyone I talk to - but this one is definitely it. I am so ready for book two!  This one is for those who loved MindFck, but haven't found anything to scratch that itch with.
Murder, Mayhem plus a little bit of spice Oh my goodness that ending 🥺 I went from non stop laughing my ass off to non stop grinning with all those beautiful feels! I bloody love this book. Two serial killers that only kill other serial killers decide to go head to head in a yearly competition to kill a specific serial killer before the other one can do it and on the way maybe even fall in love?
Kindle Read I loved every minute of this! Switched between the audio & kindle versions. I think I read / listened to this in 2 days!
A must read. A romcom that actually made me laugh out loud! Unalivers that unalive people who are bad unalivers. Yup I said what I said! It’s a he falls first, she struggles with her feelings, but when they fall it’s hard and fast. 2.5 for spice 5 for story!
10/10 This book had me in stitches. I honestly loved it. Yes the trigger warnings are a tad crazy but the banter and laughs this book brought out of me was something else. In a weird serial killer way this book had so many love and romance I was swooning! Easy read and can say I’m pumped to read more books by the talented Brynne Weaver!  I need to listen to the audiobook asap!!!!
5⭐️2.5🌶️ This book is like nothing else! For a pair of completely out there series k1llers there was just so many laughs and sweetness.  There was such a beautiful plot that went into both of their normal lives, their worries, their thoughts, passions etc. so captivating! And then there was their annual hunting game that always was so gross (some TW but was done humourous enough to not really be dark).  And finally we got to see Rowans dirtiest of dirty bedroom talk, damnnn he knew all the right things to say. Spice is a bit of a slow burn, but so worth the wait coz he REALLY makes up for lost time, over and over and over again
Where has this book been all my life?!? I didn't know how much I needed a dark romcom about serial killers until I read this book. It was absolutely everything I wanted!! Dark in content but not in the romance, funny when it had no right to me (I shouldn't be laughing about the accidental cannibalism while eating my breakfast and yet, I did), and HAWT when they finally unleashed on each other! I'm so invested in Lachlan and Lark already, even from the small glimpses, and absolutely cannot wait to read more in this world
So close This book has a great premise. The writing is good and the first chapter was super strong. It established the premise and introduced both the characters clearly and succinctly. Sadly the rest of the book fell apart. I love books that aren't afraid to be camp with gruesome content but this was just saccharine and twee. Both of which, again, I'm not opposed to but the elements of the book were badly balanced so I kept getting whiplash. It needed to pick a tone and commit to it because dithering around was hurting it on all levels.
Love Never thought killing could be so amusing. Serial killers that only kill serial killers and fall in love while they do it.Can not wait till the next book is released!
Brilliant! Serial killers falling in love - who woulda thought?  It's a brilliant book to read, but the Audible version is absolutely off the charts good. This is the first Audible book featuring Joe Arden that I've come across, and now I'm hooked on that guy's voice.  Whatever format you get this book in, it's fantastic.
Dark- Romcom Butcher and the Blackbird is a dark romcom. The book has dark themes, they are both serial killers that kill serial killers.  It’s funny, cosy and while it has dark themes, I wouldn’t say it’s a dark romance! Definitely worth a read!
boom It’s been a long while since I read a story where both characters had to actually work to eventuate their love for one another. The chemistry is so fun and it does get a bit dark in places where it 100% isn’t necessary.  But did I laugh as said I would - yes Did I think it was spicy - yes 3/5 spicey.  Was it a bit long winded. Maybe. But I liked it all the same.  Next books sounds FIRE 🔥🔥
“How fitting, love. Now be a good girl and find something to grab on to…” 5⭐️ Butcher & Blackbird need to stop it. Like for reals I can’t deal with these two! They are soooo freaking cute! Gahhhh! Legit cannot deal with this cuteness overload! Okay so this book was so great! The plot was something I’ve never experienced before and it hooked me straight away. I loved it. The pacing was perfection and I loved how it played out and was never rushed. The banter between these two was next level and the rom com elements really balanced out the graphic moments. I literally could not put it down.
A showstopper! I've never thought these 3 words together before. Dark romantic comedy. But Brynne Weaver has expertly interwoven the dark gritty vibes of a spectacular dark romance with all the raunchy irreverent moments from a romantic comedy. Rowan Kane, you sexy psycho, you. Sloane never stood a chance with your pretty boy guy-man ways. And Sloane, forever isolated by her need to be vengeance finally found her soul mate in a man who could love her for every bit of her. For a dark romance about two competitive serial killers, Butcher & Blackbird was super romantic in all the ultra possessive hero ways.
If we are monsters we will thrive in the dark together 🖤 Loved loved loved this book. I am not usually one for slowburns but oh. My. Goodness.🥵🔥🖤 This just ticked all the boxes for me with murder a little comedic wit, spice and just a fantastic build for a HEA 😊 Do yourself a favour and just read it you won't be disappointed. I was only that it sat on my tbr too long. It does have some very disturbing scenes so as always check CW before reading 🖤
The best book I’ve read in a long time I love this book so much. It’s hilarious and light hearted in the most gruesome way. I love the characters and can’t wait for the second book
Click click click now Absolutely awesome,i loved Rowan an Sloane an can’t wait to read the brothers books
So good I loved this! Dual POV M/F Serial killers Well written spicy scenes. What more could you want?!  Check trigger warnings!!
Absolutely brilliant! 🤌🥵 Wow! What a story! I laughed so hard at "accidental canablism." 🤣 This book was dark, funny, and heart-warming. I couldn't help but fall in love with characters and the way they fell in love. Awesome story, and I'm looking g forward to reading the next instalment when it's out 😍
The hype is real Far out, this story was absolutely beautiful in the most messed up way. I didn’t want it to end, and I’m so sad it’s over. This will be a story I will keep revisiting. Completely blown away and so beautifully written.
omg Was amazing from start to finish!!! Can’t wait for the next one !!!! Omg it was spicy and romantic yet deadly
Had me at accidental cannibalism Still laughing over this. All the hearts, roses and gore my heart could take. This story takes 2 morally grey characters and turns them into the hero's! Have never laughed so hard reading a book where I have to explain chocking on arse. Can't recommend enough!
Great book! What a surprise. Great characters, excellent banter, nice spice, and in my experience, amazing and unique storyline. Definitely recommend reading this one.
Wow - great read Dark but done in such a fresh way and the comedy providing the perfect balance. The characters were amazing and the romance believable. Can't wait for book 2!
What a hoot! I thoroughly enjoyed myself while reading this book. Serial killers? Accidental cannibalism? Dark romance with romcom vibes? Sign me the heck up!
Glee & Gore Loved the banter, "grumpy + sunshine" trope and the "he falls first" energy 😍  Fun and interesting read, big recommend/10
Don't get the hype Thought it be darker, thought it have more gore seeing as they are serial killers. Instead got a lot of cringy and corny scenes.
Literally a killer love story 4.5 / 5 stars gonna be honest  Loved the murder. Loved the characters. Loved the serial killers they were hunting down. Loved the scenes. Loved the banter. Loved that the time skips made sense (thank god).  It’s missing .5 points from me cause it didn’t make me throw the book across the room, lose my page and make me scramble to find it again. It was missing a tiny bit of something to make me do that.  Overall: loved it!
please excuse me while I binge this on repeat and die in a moist pile I cannot explain how fantastic this book is. I hope you are all ready for this book to become my entire personality.  It is one of the best books I have ever read.  There are so many elements that make this book a smash hit. Whether it is the reasoning of our FMC and MMC origin story to the super stabby life, or the literal comedic genius that had me cackling like a witch, or better yet SOME IF THE BEST SMUT TO EVER EXIST.  Sloane is a sweet baby angel and I would die for her to get the love she deserves while artistically slaying (literally). Rowan is a golden retriever with touch her and die energy. It’s a combination that literally has destroyed my self control and I just want to live here in this story forever.
Hilariously deranged The media could not be loaded. Well call me hooked or Blackbird, or Peaches or whatever you want that keeps this book flashing through my mind and the smiles it elicited on my lips! This had me laughing starting at the trigger warning list and didn't stop until the final scene. The characters are fantastic, the story fun and fast paced, but the true brilliance is the banter Brynne is a script writing genius! This book was so much fun, I flew through it in a day, I love the connection between the siblings, the beauty of monsters finding the darkness together and the slow burn had me smiling and swooning. Adding to this the fun and extremely unique scenario where they are both serial killing, serial killers … well you know you are in for a fun ride.
Super unique! I feel like the first thing I need to mention is the MMC narrator has an Irish accent, how can it get better than that?? This was such a unique book that it had me hooked so fast. I never knew where it was going but I couldn’t get enough. I didn’t think a romance between two serial killers could be so good, and yet here we are.
Butcher and Blackbird I really enjoyed it. Sloane and Rowan are both really interesting characters. I will admit that it kind of lost me towards the end, the pacing was weird. The first half was definitely my favourite. It was fun and kept me hooked. I love the tension that built up between the two of them and when it broke the spice was great, maybe a little long though. Overall, I think it was a really good book, I wasn't expecting to enjoy it as much as I did.
"Even serial killers deserve a meet-cute" This was my first Brynne Weaver book, and it certainly won't be my last. Sloane and Rowan's funny wit and banter were top-notch. This book had me laughing, crying, and saying, "What the fudge?" the whole way through. Maybe, my sense of humor is broken, but who cares? The book was brilliant. Oh, and one more thing - I don't think I will eat cookies and cream ice cream for a while now.
i love you joe arden and lucy rivers <3 3.75  this took me forever to finish, the first half of the book was just not my favourite, so slow.  i listened to this purely for joe arden and lucy river.  the last half of the book was wonderful.
Awesome book Great book and fast delivery
exceeded expectations This was highly popular with my younger grandsons. They enjoyed the familiar story settings and poured over each page searching for the hidden items. Great that some were more of a challenge to find than others.
Brilliant introduction to “where’s wallet type books Great entry level search and find book, taught my son the basics of this genre and he had so much fun he demanded to do the book over and over again. Highly recommended.
Bluey Table and chairs My grandson loves his Bluey Table and chairs. He eats all his meals on it, it's very good quality and very well made. Highly recommended.
Great My granddaughter loves it ❤
Where's Wally for bluey fans My kids love bluey and where's Wally books. This book combines both interests in one. They love searching for the characters, as well as the listed items on each page.
Hours of fun Cool book for Bluey lovers. My daughter loves searching for items in this book.
Bluey My grandson will love this book. Very sweet for Bluey mad kids
My toddlers fave book My son is about 2.5 and just started watching bluey a few months ago. He loves this book so much, can read it everyday/ every second day. We try and jazz it up by searching for other things not just the ones listed but it's a great book. Hope they bring out more!
great grandson loved it
Great Activity Love this book! My toddler twins are obsessed, definitely recommend it does get harder page by page but so fun!
Great book My obsessed 2 year old loves bluey Great book for him, he enjoys searching the pages
Bluey Fan version of Where's Wally My toddler(2.5yr) loves this book. Each page refers to a different location which you can tie back to an episode. Eg. The Creek, playground. He loves finding all the different characters.
A Modern Day Where's Wally Fun search for Bluey book. Kept my nephew's guessing and interacting. Great way to get kids interested in books and activities away from screens
Very good My son loves it!
As described Good little book for 3-5 year old. Soft cover. Good quality
Execelente libro para niños de 3 años A mi hijo le encantó y aún y cuando ya sabe donde están las cosas que hay que buscar, se divierte haciendo de los demás busquemos y el interactua dando pistas.
Fun book! My nephew loved fining Bluey and his friends, does get harder as it goes though the book
Muito legal para brincar Visita vários episódios da Bluey e procurar os momentos que o livro pede deixa tudo muito legal.
Perfect for my 2 year old This is perfect for quiet time play. The pictures are bright and colorful. Each page is recognizable from the show. It has both small and large printed objects and characters. You can even find the long dogs!! I got a kick out of that. There is one hidden in each page. Similar to Where's Waldo? just not so crammed together.
Con Bluey siempre acierto Lo compré cuando en España no había llegado nada de este personaje que nos encanta. Entretenimiento asegurado.
Bluey perfection As with everything Bluey - perfection. The extra Long Dog challenge makes it more fun
クリスマスに間に合わなかった 12月6日に購入した時点で12月18日までに届くと確認が取れていたので、購入したのに、何の連絡もなく12月29日に届いた。12月18日にラッピングして友人宅に郵送する予定だったのに急遽別の本を購入しました。
Bonito El libro esta muy bonito, pero tiene muy poquitas hojas, por el precio pensé que el libro sería mas grueso, las publicaciones de libros en amazon deberían de traer el numero de hojas para saberlo antes de comprar. Aun así esta muy bonito y a mis hijas les gusto.
Good for 3yrs old I bought it for my son who is 3yrs old. He likes it very much. He is also very good in finding the images. Perfect 'entertainment' when you travel or you want to keep child busy in a restaurant.
Genial Me encantó mucho los niños quedaron fasinados
Get it My toddler loves this search n find. Would go thru this book every night. If you have a bluey fan at home get this. Cute and still a little challenging for toddlers.
Divertido Libro de buscar en los dibujos a los personajes de bluey que nos chiflan, y aunque es en inglés es sencillo de entender y de buscar
Caro pero divertido Le gusto a mi hijo de 5 años pero después de resolverlo ya no es tan atractivo
Super cute! My daughter loves this book, it is her favorite thing to do before bed honestly. The find it's are pretty easy as an adult but my 2 yr old has a fun time with it. Even though there are only a handful of pages, my daughter keeps going back to it. Highly recommend this one.
Busca a Bluey y sus amigos Libro estilo Wally pero adaptado a niños/as de 3/4 años. Número ideal de elementos que buscar, lo único que el libro está en inglés aunque el texto es sencillo.
nan
Go Bluey It’s Bluey everything for a 2 year old! And up. And even a grown up can enjoy this book share with their special little sweetheart! It’s so much fun discovering what wonders fill that 2 years old’s brain and how they are beginning to relate to Bluey and family!
The best purchase since where’s Waldo My five year old and toddler nieces love this book! I bought it to entertain my son on road trips and it’s the best activity book to keep him from going crazy in the car. Highly recommend
Toddler loves She loves this book! Interactive and fun!
Recomendable Está en inglés, cosa que ya sabía antes de comprarlo. A mi hija le gusta mucho. Está bien, es entretenido
My two year old loves it! It’s challenging enough to give my two year old something to look for, but not so hard he quits. We look at it almost everyday since getting it a week or two ago.
Busca y encuentra Bluey un poco caro.. Libro completo y divertido para niños de 2/3 o hasta 4 años y sobre todo amantes de Bluey y su familia! Le pongo 4 estrellas porque por lo que es además tapa blanda el precio me parece excesivo
Esperava melhor Estava a espera de algo parecido com ‘onde esta wally’ mas não é o caso. Achei caro para o que é.
This is so cute! We use this book as a guest book for my nieces first birthday 🥳 It was a Bluey party. Everyone loved it and had fun looking for the characters themselves. The book is perfect. It arrived on time and just as described by seller. Extremely happy with this purchase!
Bluey!!!! I purchased this for my niece and nephew. It is super fun to read and search along with BLUEY!
Good for toddlers My nephew is at an age where he points and names things nonstop. I purchased this book to occupy him in playing that game independently. He loves to find blues but spends time on each page pointing and naming other random objects. I recommend the book for kids who enjoy that or are learning new words.
Excellent parent must have book Excellent book, if you’re going to buy a book for parenting . Buy this one, easy read and excellent relatable information. Great strategies and so helped up. Also recommend for anyone working with kids or even looking to understand themselves
Practical approach to parenting Practical approach to parenting focused on a few key aspects of brain research. Easy to read with fridge-cheat-sheet and summary by children’s age group for future reference. Highly recommended if you’re looking for a different approach to disciplining behaviour and connection to your child. What I liked the most was techniques about teaching children how to deal with their own feelings to build resilience, particularly the pre-teenage years.
Recommended Well written and practical. I enjoyed reading this book and found it had useful strategies to help with all ages at home.
Great for Nerdy Parents! Wow. I didn't buy or read many parenting books before I had my little one, but recently I've bought a few about child development because I find it fascinating! I listened to 'The Whole Brain Child' on audio and had to buy the paper copy too. This book is basically twelve strategies for fostering healthy brain development and also helps parents to understand what is going on with children's behaviour and how to use everyday moments to foster your child's brain development. In saying that, I have found it incredibly approachable with some interesting science thrown in too. Bonus: it didn't make me feel like a crappy parent! Anyway, I recommend this for any other geek parents like me who'd like a science-y way to understand and help their little people grow .
Practical guidance that I will revisit regularly Insightful food for thought, clearly written. Can be applied to parents of children from all ages and even within other relationships. I especially like that they have summarised the chapters at the end of the book and also clearly illustrate how the specific strategies look for children from each age group (e.g. toddler 0-3)
Changed our parenting completely Felt like we were going from fire to fire just struggling to survive. This book has given us the skills to better connect with our kids when things are going wrong for them, for them to feel loved, nurtured and heard.  The background of how the brain related to our thoughts, emotions and behaviours is a huge eye opener and has not only helped with our parenting but looking at ourselves and how our own past issues affect our parenting.  Every parent who is struggling day to day or feels like they are constantly just telling off their kidswithout connecting will benefit from this.  The audiobook narration is great. Both authors do a great job reading the material.
Great Really interesting book. Easy to understand with examples of how to apply the knowledge in real life. Helps you understand your own mind and your children’s minds better.
Gave it to my friends, they are happy I gifted it to my friends who are expecting a baby. They said the book is good.
Superb and practical This book truly gives me clarity and insight that will help to integrate our parenting roadmap on day to day basis.
whole brain engaged I used my whole brain to read this, with my eyes. Ah but sure now come on, this is a great lump of info AND we’ll said, if you don’t MIND me saying. Many loves to you. Me.
Great tools I love this book. So helpful to understand children's brains and great tools and tips. A very practical book with summary sheets.
Thank you, thank you, thank you Every parent or caregiver should read this. It helped me to understand, help and teach my children so much, with not much fuss. It has put things into perspective. No more feeling like I’m at my wits end or being in despair about what to do next. It has so many practical ways to tackle everything from the smallest to the bigger issues. Thank you for this wonderful gift.
Great to think about I’d recommend this to any parents who are struggling with a hard-to-handle child. Gives great tools to connect well with your child, and help them through their fits of rage. Funny anecdotes throughout make it an easy read.
Really helpful I really enjoyed this book, it was recommended to me by a friend. I bought an extra copy to give as a gift. Very helpful explanations and recommendations, even for adults to apply to themselves.
Great read for everyone Would highly recommend. The writer has put this complicated subject into easy to understand language.
Smame about the print quality - content of the book seems great so far I am enjoying the content, however almost every page has missing ink on the print. This makes reading the product difficult.
Bad quality printing I was shoked by the quality of paper and printing of this book. I'm not talking about the content, but the paper and printing. I'm not happy with my purchase. Check the attached photo
The quality of printing is poor there is a problem with whatever machine printed this book. There are two distinct 'lines' on each page that make many letters illegible and therefore some words too.
A must read. This is the book all parents should read! The advice and ideas are so well researched, easy to follow and easy to implement.
Bad print quality While the book itself might be great, But I have not read this fully as the print quality is bad. Will buy book from somewhere else if there is a better print quality.
Quick. Quick.
Good read Good read, quick delivery
Bad Print quality Print quality is not good. Doesn't feel like original printing.
Great content, poor printing quality! Despite the great content, this book has an extremely poor printing quality.
Excellent This book gives precisely what a parent need to know and DO to help the child thrive. I was lost with my parenting and this book was brought me back being confident that I will be able to parent the way my kids need it.
Best book on childhood development I’ve read! The practical applications recommended based on the knowledge provided is so very helpful. Knowing what to do with what I now know is key.
Good parenting book Really good book
? Strategies were well explained with good but brief case studies.
A necessity for all teachers Great book - easy to read and understand. Great practical examples and advice. As a teacher with pastoral responsibility I have already used many of these ideas to good effect. Thoroughly recommend this book.
Recommended!!!! Amazing book!!!!
Beware of printing error rendering book hard to read. This particular book was received with a printing error right through the book rendering it effortful to read (vertical blank line/smudge) about 2cm from the left of every page. Buyer beware. Have found it hard to continue reading due to this so can’t comment on content.
The negative reviews are ironic This book requires a certain level of emotional intelligence to not only understand it but to also implement it. I’ve read the negative reviews, all of them indicate a lack of EI or understanding. The one that said it isn’t an emotional development book because that would be “why is my child upset” well the book explains in detail why children have tantrums and difficulty controlling their emotions so it clearly addresses that.  The review that said it didn’t help their “problem child”. Well, that they’re even calling their child a problem indicates that they did not implement the strategies at all or work on themselves, I’d be certain they tried once or twice and when that didn’t work they gave up (changing the brains plasticity takes a long time, 1 day of these strategies will be fairly useless.) I also have a child with behavioural difficulties, a speech and language disorder and an anxiety disorder. He responds very well to these strategies and responds best when they are always used. That doesn’t mean he doesn’t act out, but over time I see a change in how he manages these outbursts and he’s started saying “I’m going to go over here where (my sister) can’t get to me.” Instead of hitting her.  The book is quite repetitive, but he explains things in different ways, most people require that to understand a concept, I thought it was differentiated enough to remain engaging although I did skip some of the repeated parts at the end.  There was one review calling it Fake Science. He clearly states in the book that the brain is not as simple as left/right brain but he’s simplifying it to more easily explain how the brain works and why the parenting strategies are useful. I actually agree that he shouldn’t use that terminology but that’s the only part of inaccuracy. Modern research does support the idea of unconditional love, emotional development and boundaries, with evidence suggesting that punishment causes emotional disconnect once kids become teenagers and increases the likelihood of addiction and emotional problems. Research also supports that a high emotional intelligence reduces the likelihood of addictive behaviours and destructive behaviour.  This book is not a quick fix to parenting. This is 18-25 years of solid parenting effort to see the benefits in a well adjusted adult who has the empathy and emotional understanding to handle the difficulties in life and to be able to undo any of your parenting mistakes (because we can’t be perfect!).  Pros: easy to understand, solid and supported advice, will result in stable adults. Cons: left/right brain description is misleading, this is not a quick fix and most people do not have the calm to actually implement these strategies.  If you want to also develop the calm, I suggest reading: “Raising Good Humans” or “The Headspace Guide to Meditation and Mindfulness.” The latter will do yourself as much good as your children and works well in conjunction with this book. Basically the mindsight description in this book is just how to teach children mindfulness and meditation because teaching a child is different to teaching an adult.  Hopefully this helps people. If you don’t have an open mind to changing everything you believe (if you believe in punishment as discipline, or think that “you turned out ok”) then this book will be a disappointment. But if you want to break generational trauma and create some humans that contribute to the world in a positive way instead of adding to the sadness then read away!
Very interesting and easy to read with examples of how to put into ... Very interesting and easy to read with examples of how to put into practice. It's great to be able to zoom in on the pictures and graphs to read with ease.
Excellent Excellent
Interesting It was an interesting take on things. It felt like a very short book, I wasn't expecting it to end so abruptly.
Parenting simply Loved the rationale behind these parenting strategies. This book makes sense. I wish I could get out of this page now!
Ok, but not great Ok. Too wordy with not enough information. Brain Rules for Baby by John Medina is amazing for understanding how babies think and grow, proof from studies conducted and what actions to take as a parent. Much better investment.
Fantastic Every parent should read this book
Loved it! Simple and practical Thank you. Best practical handbook for raisin authentic, grounded, and wise kids.
An invitation to thrive with your children The scientific yet simple approach of the authors has helped me understand how my children's brains are developed and gave me very useful strategies to help them learn how to tune their own experiences.  The best part is that the same information helps me to become a better person, more in touch with my thoughts and feelings, and more aware of why I behave in a certain way in specific situations.
Recomendable para cualquier papá Aún que creas no necesitar ayuda en como criar a tu hijo, es muy buena lectura para ver qué hacer para mejorar la relación con tu hijo y entenderlo mejor.
Great knowledge, poor printing quality Great book, useful not only for parents but for everyone.
Great tool, applicable When you ask other parents about the child's behavior, more than likely you'll hear similar stories. There's a reason for that and this guide will walk you thru recognizing and acting on these phases and reactions of your child.
Worth the read Helpful tips for parenting in todays world
Must read for Parents, teachers and care givers Book mentions difficult topics in a easy way and it helps us to understand it better. They gave many good strategies and how we can overcome the situation in a better way. While searching for a good book for parenting I found this and indeed it is a great book.
Great book Personal education
Incredible, educational and eye opening Wow, what an incredible, educational and eye opening book! I understand so much more about the human brain and it has helped immensely to deal with toddler tantrums. I highly recommend this book to anyone with kids or without.
Très intéressant et utile J'ai beaucoup aimé ce livre (je l'avais en version numérique mais voulais également la version papier), j'ai l'impression que sa lecture m'aide réellement à mieux comprendre ma fille de 3 ans qui s'énerve beaucoup en ce moment. J'essaie d'appliquer le conseil principal : Connect then redirect" et j'ai l'impression que ça fonctionne. En tout cas cela se passe mieux avec ma fille depuis quelques jours. Je trouve que les conseils sont intéressants et que le fait de savoir que si ma fille s'énerve c'est la plupart du temps parce qu'elle n'arrive pas à comprendre ou savoir comment réagir parce que son cerveau est en cours de construction aide à être plus patiente avec elle. Je voulais la version papier pour pouvoir imprimer les BD et en discuter avec ma fille quand elle sera plus grande
not informing at all not informing at all
Recommended read I read this while pregnant with my first child. The book is very engaging and it did cause me to reflect a lot on the struggles that other friends have shared with me about raising children, and on how I want to approach the raising of my child. There is a lot of food for thoughts contained in these pages. Now I have passed on the book to my husband :)
ITS A PRICKLY PROBLEM ... Book one of this much lauded YA Fantasy series is, to put it mildly, an extraordinary reading experience. It must be said, however, that ACOTAR starts off relatively slowly. The reader is introduced to the book’s principal character - Feyre - who is a huntress who kills for her own survival and that of her family. Her father is a broken man. Crippled, both physically, financially, and metaphorically. Her mother died when she was younger. He sisters are two unloving, and facetious twats. Her brothers are something our heroine (and the story) were not blessed with.  Fate brings Fayre and a beautiful, fully grown wolf together in the sunlight dappled reaches of the nearby Forest. Destiny steps forth to convince Fayre to kill the wolf. She does so, and her life is never the same again. For the wolf she killed was anything but. Fayre is captured for the kill and punishment is either instant death, or lifelong banishment into the enemy’s kingdom. She chooses the latter to save her family, and this is where the book’s true nature takes form and steals the reader’s heart.  For this is where we meet Tamlin, and Lucien. The sworn and hated enemies who aren’t. It is easy to detest them both, but read on, and your feelings toward them will soften. Moments of breathtaking excitement and beauty follow. Chapter after chapter, after chapter, feature cliffhangers and profound plot twists, that quite literally, take your breath away, and make it impossible for the reader to put the book down. A chain of truly stupendous OMG moments leave the reader in tatters when they realise they must put the book down eventually to rejoin society. Chapter thirteen is where the book finds it’s street cred from a fantasy perspective. And chapter eighteen is a good way for the reader to determine if they are still human, and if they still have a heart than can be broken.  This book is structured, and written beautifully. Pacing is perfect, too. A harsh critic would give it four stars and say, 'its only book one of a trilogy, and you need to leave room for improvement...’ Well, I ain’t no harsh critic. This book is worth full marks, and if the rest are even better, then no doubt the world will get to hear of it. ACOTAR is the first Sarah J Maas book that i have picked up and it is truly gorgeous in just about every way imaginable. My good fortune lies in the fact that book two is less than three months away. That gives me time to read this one again (and again, and again) in readiness, or go and purchase the other titles in her world wide best selling catalog.  Either way, I can’t lose. It’s a prickly problem that I am delighted to find myself in a quandary over.  Yo to that.
Definitely getting the rest of the series Definitely an enjoyable read that I'll be recommending to my other book loving friends.  The first half of the book I'd rate 3/5, it's a little bit slow but not in a boring way. We learn about Feyre and what a strong female lead she is, the sacrifices she has to make for her family and also about the layout of the faerie court. Great world and character building, it makes the reader feel like this is mostly a love story about overcoming difficultiws together. However, once the plot twist hits it seems more of an action/adventure and really picks up the pace.  All of the characters are likeable I'd say minus Feyre's family who really invoke frustration and anger from the reader. The main love interest isn't really that interesting in my opinion but it could be because he was only one of the many aspects of the book that drove feyre's motivation. And he may build a lot more depth in character in the next books in the series.  I still kept thinking about the book even the next day after I'd finished it which is always a positive sign for me. I'll definitely be reading the rest of the series in the near future.  Though I feel like the first book itself tied up many loose ends where if someone wanted to they could definitely just stop after the first book.
Amazing! Loves this book, fantastic read and I love the fantasy aspects and the romance will definitely be reading the all of the series
SPEECHLESS Hands down one of the best books I’ve read! I couldn’t put it down! Can’t wait to read the next..
Slow start but has potential ‘A Court of Thorns and Roses’ is book one in Sarah J. Maas’ A Court of Thorns and Roses series.  Feyre with her two older sisters Nesta & Elain along with their father live in a small human town that borders the wall between humans and Fae. Five hundred years ago a War broke out between Humans and Fae, which resulted in Humans living in the South of Prythian in the Mortal Lands, and the Wall built. While out Hunter Feyre kills a Fae in the form of a Wolf which results in her coming face to face with the very beings her kind have been brought up to fear.  This was a bit of a slow start, but by the 70% mark I was completely invested. I did find Feyre to be a tad naive and easily manipulated. Her family literally treated her like crap all her life, and the promise she had made I found to be utter bull. Dont get me wrong I understand that without her, her family wouldn’t not have survived as long as they had, but how is that fair to her. Feyre is strong in her own unique way, learning everything by herself makes her a stronger person. Feyre has been dealt a rare hand in this story, starving, living in poverty, living with her enemies, and so much more. Than when she is finally “happy” things go down hill even more.  I do not like Tamlin, I find him to be too secretive, manipulative, and there is something about him that just irks me. Even when things started to heat up between him and Feyre I still felt as if this was all wrong. Yes he helps her come into herself and helps her get over her “promise” but there is more behind him. Plus in what world is it ok to not want to help the one you love when they are in danger. Plus the first chance he gets when Under the Mountain to help he wants to hump away instead of escaping. Nope not ok.  Now Rhysand, well he is a different matter. I LOVE RHYSAND. Just putting it out there, I have a thing for the bad boy, he intrigues me. But there is something else under his mask that he puts out to everyone. From the moment he first meets Feyre on the hill he has done one thing after another to help her. Under the Mountain is where I really fell for him, he’s constant helping Feyre out even though it would cost him. His flirtatious banter with Feyre had me smiling and blushing.  I am hoping that like Ms Maas’ TOG series that the misunderstood, grouchy, moody, male is the love interest and not the first male as I can not stand Tamlin.  This series has serious potential and I can’t wait to see how things turn out. I off now to go and read book two.
Some thoughts No spoilers,  Honestly I have heard this book this book mentioned to me so many times that I actually stayed very clear of the entire series but recently I had the courage to read the first book. And I do not regret this book whatsoever,  This book without a summary is definitely not what I was expecting. It’s not my type of book but it definitely hit further then any expectations I had for it. Overall this book, for me was kind of mediocre after the events of the Amazon sample, but I held on because of my high hopes of the spoilers. Though because I did that I was actually able to read further and start to slowly really enjoy the book, from halfway through this book and to the end, it actually turned out to be amazing. The plot twists in this were actually surprising though albeit a bit cliche. So far I definitely will be reading the second book but I’m not quite sure if I will read the entire series and the other linked books such as TOG. But hopefully SJM changes my mind, i believe she will. I hope so as her plot and lore are actually frankly amazing, I love the world she has set for her readers. For new readers I give you the advice of not looking for any spoilers or any high hopes that is from booktok. And try not to get too attached to the ML
Enthralling Sarah, you took me there, I stood in the room as the stories unfolded. I wasn’t just reading a book but living right there amongst the masked high Fae. Your mind is beautiful, intelligent and witty, thank you for sharing this part of you with us.
Loved it! After many recommendations I decided to read this as my holiday read while travelling. I was hooked and couldn’t put it down. Not my usual genre at all but such escapism and brilliant story. About to start the next book in the series, can’t wait to get into it.
Thoroughly enjoyed this This is not my typical type of book but couldn’t put it down. Wonderfully written. Will be continuing the series
I’m glad I gave it a second chance I originally attempted to read this book a couple of years ago and stopped reading at 66%. At the time I did not know it was a retelling of Beauty and the Beast, and so the similarities turned me off quite a bit back then, as it seemed unoriginal. However, I decided to give ACOTR another go, considering how everyone raves about this series and I’ve heard that the first book isn’t so great compared to the rest. So here I am giving it a second chance.  I again am annoyed at how awful Feyre’s family is at the beginning of the book. The interactions and description of the family dynamic can be summed up as childish, more like a Cinderella vibe with her two selfish and egotistical sisters. It just doesn’t seem realistic and is cringe worthy when reading. It makes is look like Feyre is an enabler for letting her family be lazy and for letting them get away with their juvenile behaviour. This would normally turn me off and I would not pursue reading - however, the reputation of the book convinced me to continue.  Moving on. I actually did like the part of Feyre living in the fae world and getting to know Tamlin and Lucien. As another review states, I was wary of Tamlin. He’s polite but then always seems to be snarling at her. I’m suss about his motives. I knew to be on the watch for Rhysand and at the beginning he has kind of Damon from Vampire Diaries vibes. Appears evil and is cunning.  It turns out that around 70% is when things heat up and the action takes place. In conclusion, I am glad I gave this book another chance. And I look forward to reading the next book in the series.
Captivating Took be about till chapter 12 where it became a page tunner. But my goodness I loved this book
intriguing and captivating! I can’t wait to see where this series goes next. I’m sure it will be as gripping as this book was.
I loosed my mind reading this. Loosed! My "bowels turned watery" by the sheer number of times a character "loosed a breath" in this book. And we get it, Feyre paints pictures.
Average Dragged on in parts while failed to develop enough believable relationship. No real surprises in plot as the author flashed clues that were so obvious
Comfort Read 🥀 ⚜️ Book Title - A Court of Thorns and Roses ⚜️ Author - Sarah J. Maas ⚜️ Rating - ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ ⚜️ Some Genre/Themes/Tropes: Adult Fiction, Romance and Fantasy  I am incredibly embarrassed for never writing a review for this book since I’ve read it multiple times….  The plot, love it! Love it! Love it! It is perfectly paced and there are so many little Easter eggs planted throughout. Probably more that I’m not yet aware of. 👀  The characters are top tier. Feyre is one of my favourite protagonists to date. Rice boy…. 😮‍💨 even though I always say his name wrong unless I’m listening to the audio version, this man is the ultimate book boyfriend.  I would highly recommend this book to others. I will definitely look for other books written by this author.  Note (How I rate): Three stars is a good, enjoyable read. Four is an excellent read and five is a comfort reads that lingers with me for life (very difficult to get but not impossible).
Its popular for a reason. Great read The book that got me hooked on reading again. Perfect world building, perfect level of fantasy and magic, perfect character development. I love to feel emotions towards characters whether they be good or mysterious. I really enjoyed this whole series!
i understand now Its taken me so long to get to this, but i understand the hype now. I definitely underestimated this book, and im honestly so happy that i did, bc it made me enjoy it so much more🤍
Absolutely Hooked It had me twisting and turning at every page. I haven’t been this enthralled by a book in a very long time. Thank you.
Worth the hype This book got me out of my reading slump, I really loved this book. Yes the beginning is kinda slow but once the story starts to unfold it is very hard to put down.
Hang in there Builds slow at first but the BAM i was awake until I finished the book, so so so glad I was smart enough to get the first three in one go
loved this book Page turner. Loved that it was different and fascinating … can’t wait to read the next one .. you will love it
Good start to a GREAT series. Must read the second! The first book is a little slow to start but well worth the read. The second is just a mind blowing and incredible story.
AMAZING This book is amazing and the second book is even better. My second favourite in the series. Absolute fantasy gold.
The writing is wonderful but the characters aren’t? I loved the writing style - the description of the scenery, the vagueness yet captivating description of characters that lets you create your own image but sticks to a base, and honestly the plot points are good. I cried at several points, mostly when the main chara was forced to realise what a dark life she was starting to live. The description of the sacrifices she made for her family at the beginning were extremely well built and I really enjoyed them. (Spoiler) I only object plot wise to the amount of money the family got given by main boi, felt like a cop out for what could’ve been a tragic family arc and felt like everything really just worked out too well for them… exception of Nesta who’s arc I didn’t expect and loved and cried for.  Now my main complaint. WHY DO ALL BOOKS FEEL THE NEED TO HAVE TWO LOVE INTERESTS??? I was so hooked on feyre and Tamlin, went through so much together and bared their hearts for each other and JUST…… god I would’ve given anything to see their story get a better light and become a really solid power couple but the minute she said ‘most handsome face she’s ever seen’ midway through the book introducing a DIFFERENT DUDE, I knew the jig was up. No way u call a dude most handsome and still stay with the beginning guy. Tragic. Truly, truly tragic. It’s not even that I object to her having another love interest - it’s that the main couple barely got a chance to really start loving each other in such a beautiful way outside of having to kill people to be together before the author introduces the new love interest (who, cough, does some NOT OKAY things to her aka lowkey sexually assaults her and TWISTS HER EXPOSED BONE TO MANIPULATE HER DECISIONS like bro.) and yeah I’m sure he redeems himself in the next book within 1 chapter. But… that was it for me. I was so, so here for feyre and tamlin - I cried for them from an hour in. But.. it just felt kinda cheap and random throwing another dude in while she’s LITERALLY FIGHTING FOR TAMS LIFE willing to die for him during amaranthas trials :(  I loved 90% of it - but the 10% has driven away any interest in reading book 2 (and thus rhys and feyres relo) - regardless of how beautifully written it is.
Makes me question people’s taste This book was an abhorrent excuse for literature. It is simultaneously an amalgamation of every cliche romance trope yet manages to make a mockery of itself with underdeveloped characters, and a painfully thin plot. I should have trusted my judgement but all the reviews raving about the “tension” momentarily swayed me, but I can honestly say the only tension felt was by me, after remembering I spent fourteen dollars on this book. The success of ACOTAR is proof that literacy is at an all time low. My heart genuinely aches for the poor trees that were cut down only for this hot mess to be printed on them. Don’t waste your time hoping the book gets better because it doesn’t. Godspeed.
LOVE IT This book is SO PRETTY, and it comes with such a pretty box to go it. I have it on display next to my Throne of Glass collectors edition and they look perfect side by side. Absolutely no damage to the book or box when I received my package, 20/10 do recommend!
AMAZING Suchhhhhh a great book, I'm so glad I got it.  Delivery was fast and it was in perfect condition!
Just what I needed I love this book and I just know I'm going to like this whole series. I've already started the second in the series!  I've been meaning to delve into this type of genre in books and I'm grateful that this is what I was recommended first <3
Not a bad story Imaginative, well written but it was a little obvious where the story was going. I'll continue reading as it was a nice escape from reality
This Was a Gift My daughter requested this book for her birthday and she really enjoyed it!!
Make it stop "Putting my audio book on to try and get through it. Friksake this book is trash. Main character accomplishes literally nothing without someone directing her, gains nothing without it being given to her and is loved for being an unlikable tiprat. Feels like it was written by some edgy teen girl."  -an actual message i sent to my wife at chapter 40. I forced myself to finish this book so i would never have to wonder if it got better. Stuff the sequels. What a chore.
Don't just walk to get this book, RUN!!!!! I had seen this book all over BookTOK and finally bought it on Kindle. October through to early December 2022 became me reading the entire 5 book series back to back!!!! I could NOT put them down! This first book is a little slower than the others but it's character and world building, book 2 onwards just got better and better and they have just the right amount of spice! Chapter 54 & 55 of A Court of Mist and Fury (OMG)!!!!! (Thank me later!).  Off to check out the other books that Sarah J Maas has written now :)
The series that got me back into reading Growing up I loved to read. It was a passion I kind of lost along the way to adulthood. Fast forward to 2021 when I was recommended this series.  I bought the first book, which sat on my nightstand for about 4 months before I even bothered to start it. But boy oh boy once I did I was hooked. I finished the whole series in under 2 weeks and it completely reignited my passion for reading which I will forever be grateful for!  If you like fantasy, romance, found family and just an all around magical atmosphere then I 100% suggest reading this series!
Phenomenal Love love love this book. Must read! Lose yourself in the world of Prythian and you won't regret it at all.
Amazing I would read this again and again and again
Could not put it down This was my first Sarah J Maas book, and I couldn’t put it down. The way she writes makes you really feel for the characters and you just want more! I kept thinking “just one more chapter, and I’ll go to bed” - but it was never just one more! Beautifully written and captivating first book for this series.
yo😭😭😭 Such a good story, i did not put it down until I was finished. Literally ignored the whole world, but what a world to get sucked into!🤩 chefs kiss to ms author🤌🏽🤌🏽🤌🏽🤌🏽
Worth the hype Everyone has recommended this series to me, and after finishing the first book I can see why. I can't wait to read number two!
A court of thorn and roses Loved this book so much ended up buying the complete box set.
mysteriously wonderful Cannot put it down. All the twists and turns have you reading till midnight and then some. Have fun reading
Fantastic read Definitely different from most I read, but Sarah is an amazing author that’s so creative, you think this book goes one way but she hits you with a curve ball. The perfect amount of brutal, love and mystery.
ACOTAR Wow! Such an amazing read I'm so glad that I can download the next book to continue reading this awesome series asap.  I had just finished the Throne of Glass series and wasn't ready to fully leave that world behind so I decided to see what all the fuss about regarding ACOTAR. Now while reading the first few chapters I thought it was boring and honestly Feyre was annoying me. Then it started to get interesting. Lucien and Tamlin, where to start. Lucien I like, there is something about him that seems good but I'm not sure if he is a true friend to Feyre or not yet. I think he could be. Tamlin on the other hand I'm not sure I like. I get that he is who Feyre loves and who she would do anything for, but I don't trust him. Rhysand, my beautiful Rhysand...I think he is hiding a great deal of secrets and I can not wait to see what trouble he causes for Tamlin in the next book.
Second Time Round and Still Delivers This was my second time reading A Court of Thorns and Roses. And what an epic adventure of magic, love, torture and darkness. Sarah J. Maas has delivered a unique retelling of Beauty and the Beast that stretches far past the classic tale. Feyre has taken to venturing further and further into the forest, closer to the wall that separates the faeries and their magic from the land of the humans. But when Feyre takes the life of a fae she has to pay the price. Having to leave her father, her sisters and the life she has known behind, Feyre is taken beyond the wall and into a world where nothing is as it seems. What happens when the good versus evil is not what you thought it was and the fae you had been taught to fear were not necessarily the evil they had been made out to be. Humans versus Fae turns into life and love versus greed and death in this epic tale. For those that prefer to not enter into a long trilogy, A Court of Thorns and Roses could be read as a standalone novel, however could not wait to get into the second book in this great series.
Intriguing, fanciful I found it intriguing, kept you guessing what was she going to get herself into and how to get out of the situation. How Sarah describes the surroundings was pure fantasy. Can't wait to read the rest of the series.
Worth it for the second book The only reason I pushed through the first half of this book was because I was reading it for book club. However, I’m glad I made the effort. While the book does indeed get better, what makes reading it worthwhile are the following books in the series. I absolutely loved them. Stick it out, it’s worth it for book 2, I promise.
Amazinggggg The pace, the writing style. Everything was v easy and goooood. Would definitely read this again, going to finish the series no doubt.
OBSESSED WITH THIS SERIES! This book has been so hyped so I think that put me off reading it incase I didn't like it.  But OMG did I love it, Its no wonder everyone is obsessed with this series. It is definitely one of my top 5 fantasy series of all time.  Don't wait, read it immediately! The series really does get better and better as the series goes on.
Much more than Beauty and the Beast It begins as a ‘Beauty and the Beast‘ type story with some differences of detail - such as the fact that this heroine is strong and proactive, a hunter who provides for her impoverished father and siblings - and becomes a much more intricate story. It’s set in a world where Faeries and humans are enemies who are required by Treaty to keep to their own domains. But within the Faery realms things are a lot more complicated than that, as our heroine, taken there against her will, gradually discovers. A delicious fantasy-romance with engaging characters and a plot that contains some unforeseeable twists and turns which nevertheless, when they happen, are both credible and moving. I liked it so much, I read it fast and ordered the two sequels immediately.
Slow start but worth it The first quarter of this story feels slow and can be frustrating as you are largely in the dark about what is happening. For the remainder I was hooked & didn't want to put it down. In all honesty this could have been two full books with a bit more time spent on developing the bonds between the characters to make it a little more believable but the overarching story is compelling enough to keep you reading & believe in each characters motivations.
Amazing Absolutely in love with this book - shipping was fast and it’s a beauty! Would definitely recommend. Looks great with the rest of my collection
Great book It was full of suspense and the edge of your seat with wanting to know more. Read in less than 24 hours. I just couldn't put it down. Haven't had a great book in such a long time.
Brilliant! There’s a reason her books are so popular, Frieda McFadden is the queen of easy reading, gripping tales! Millie is hired as a housemaid, and despite her colourful past, finds herself working in one of the fanciest houses in the street. There’s a twisty tale as we discover her past, and the family’s secrets. . Unless you’ve been hibernating for a while, you would know how popular these books are - and for good reason! I love a good thriller in a domestic setting, and quick, short chapters have you turning the pages as quickly as you can!
amazing book! This book was so interesting , entriging From start to finish! I couldn't put this book down for long! Very well written!
it’s good but expected plot twist It’s a good thriller, if you want an easy read. It’s fun and light. It’s not boring! So that’s a plus. I recommend after reading a love/romance book to balance yourself out, men do actually suck.
A great read! Light but weighty! Thoroughly page turningly suspense!  Looking forward to reading the next one.  What does Millie do next time?
Best book by far This is the third book of McFadden's that I've read and it by far had the best story line - the ending felt a bit rushed compared to the rest of the story line but it can be forgiven and I'm excited to get onto the next one
Good, not great! I've had this book on my WTR list for some time and finally got around to doing so. And unfortunately, my thoughts are very mixed about this one. Firstly, there's been a lot of hype, so naturally I was expecting a blockbuster. Yes, this was a page turner but not because it was as unpredictable as some have reviewed. I felt like halfway through the book I knew who the villain was, so the thrill wasn't really there for me. The storyline was a little too "unbelievable" for me, and I think that's what put me off . It's a book about a married couple who project to the community that they're in a loving relationship; the husband Andy, a handsome and successful businessman and his wife Nina, a stay at home mum, who without her knowledge is the talk of the town amongst other well to do gossipers (ie. PTA mum's of the uber rich kind). Life becomes a little too overwhelming for Nina, so she decides to hire assistance in the form of Millie, an ex-convict on parole turned wannabe housemaid. Things become interesting when Millie discovers that this household isn't your average wealthy Long Island "Mcmansion", and within these walls lies a lot of drama and deceit. It was a very easy read, enjoyable and light, but lacked the plot twist and gripping suspense I was hoping for. Frieda did finish with somewhat of a cliffhanger, so admittedly I will read the sequel, but my hopes won't be so high second time around.
good read Easy reading, takes your mind away to a different place and can’t wait to read the next book! Highly recommend
Couldn't put it down! A perfect book...I loved it and devoured it in 2 days. So easy to read, such a page turner 😀
I’m Impressed This is the first book I have read from Freida and it won’t be the last. Her ability to create unease and terror is amazing , the book could be true but I sincerely hope it’s not. As a battered wife, forty years ago with husband number one, i know what the vigilance feels like and the dread in the pit of your stomach. Thank goodness for happy endings. I’m off to buy book two, can hardly wait.
Couldnt put the book down This author is fantastic. Couldn't put the book down. I plan to buy all her books.
Twist and turns Omg what a book. I couldn't stop reading it once I started and the twists...did not see that coming. Highly recommended
this isss good Good read , really enjoyed this I’m not big on thriller but I absolutely liked tho even if I knew kinda what was gonna happen still liked this . Definitely will read more from this author
Twists. Turns. Utterly Captivating Wow! What a great read. From the opening page, through to the end, I was captivated by where McFadden was taking me. Great read!
The Housemaid It was a great book and would have been even better if I didn’t guess the plot correctly and ruin most of it for myself
Just Plain Good It's hard to figure something original about this book - given the 100s of 1000s of reviews already praising it. I picked it up because a friend was reading through it and highly recommended it. While it has some tropey moments the story is really fun to read and flows so fast you're quickly sucked into the back and forth twists.  Something that really stuck out to me is that for the most part this book is actually disturbingly realistic. It might seem over the top but (avoiding spoilers) and stereotyped but much that goes on is how a situation like this would go down.
Astonishing and mind blowing thriller Rating: 5 stars  This was my first introduction to Freida M and all I can say is I am obsessed!  In the housemaid we are introduced to the main character “Millie”. Millie is an ex-con who has recently lost her job and is now living in her car. So when she receives a call from Nina in regards to the housemaid position in a very wealthy neighborhood, she can’t believe it. Did this rich woman not do a background check on her?  Nina and Millie instantly click, a few weeks later Millie is her housemaid…  However, Millie feels as if something is not right in this house and something has to be wrong.  I devoured this book in less than a day. We see two points of views in this book; Millie and Nina. Millie’s point of view is seen in Part 1 of the book where we grow to despise Nina. Nina’s point of view is in the second Part of the book where we learn the truth. Then throughout part 3 of the book we view both Nina and Millie's points of views.  I would highly recommend this book and I will definitely be reading the rest of Frieda McFaddens books.
easy but gripping I read this is one setting waiting for the boys to return from soccer. Whilst not predictable from the onset, it became niece so as I read on. Enjoyable for a Saturday night
Keeps you guessing I thought this book was an easy to read thriller with lots of twists and turns. I heard via tic toc this book was a great read and that the author Freida McFadden was a wonderful writer. As this was my first book of hers I plan to read more.
Good read Hard to put this book down!
Time filler This book is easy to read and fills time but lacks any substance.
Twists & Turns One of the best psycho thrillers I've read in a long time. Freida McFadden really captures you into the tale. A can't put the book down read.
great read I did not see the plot going the way it did. Was a great read. Not one to read a blurb and glad I didn’t as this was full or twists and turns in all the right places
a page turner I was hooked from the start and struggled to put it down. I really enjoyed the twists, the plotting and thank goodness I never had a mother like Andy’s.
underwhelming I wasn’t shocked by the twists— which is fine. I actually pride myself in guessing endings early on in all stories. This drives my husband nuts when we’re watching shows and movies.  The plot wasn’t bad. It kept me reading, and I finished the book  What I didn’t like about this book and the reason I only gave it 2 stars was the level of writing. I expected a lot more because of how hyped up it was.  For being on so many best seller lists I was actually quite shocked. It’s first person point of view… which I normally like because it makes you feel as though you’re experiencing the story first hand. But it wasn’t the case with this book. The inner dialogue of this pov over explained everything. Like reminding the reader of past details and telling them information. I think this is lazy writing. Good writing will show you what you need to know by taking the time to lay out a good scene. Inner dialogue with random facts not only makes it unrealistic but… well that’s it, it makes it unrealistic. No one thinks “oh the lawn guy is bringing the package to the door because sometimes the mailman doesn’t know how to get in the gate to bring it himself”. In this case I think the writer could trust their readers have more than two brain cells and would be able to piece that puzzle together.
Good easy read Nice easy to read book, with a good number of plot twists and turns. I recommend this book to those who enjoy psychological thrillers.
Housemaid Great Read. Loved the writing so easy to read. Different story loved the  characters and the plot. Story of revenge And strong women. Would recommend this book to all readers
the plot is amazing I was skeptical about this as I was reading part 1 but it all starts to unfold and it’s got multiple twists and turns that are unexpected and very satisfying. Would definitely recommend
Wow Explains the reviews , I saw this book on Tik Tok, on everyone's To Be Read list. I added it to mine.
Good Read Certainly was a good read with a great twists
Interesting I am a mystery buff. And I thought this was another domestic crime thriller. Go a bit slow for me in the middle but boy I enjoyed every bit of it. Could guess who was the bad character… but could never predict the ending. I don’t know who I like more… Nina or Mille
Not "thrilling" Some descriptives are repetitive through this story. I found it "put-downable".
Thrilling. I really enjoyed this thriller. Nina, Andrew and Millie what a page turner. Millie accepts a housekeeping job from Nina after being released from prison and so the story begins. Very little romance but lots of suspense. Would recommend this one.
gripping and amazing Amazing story. Couldn’t put it down, just wish the ending was different! Highly recommend. So many twists and turns to keep you interested
Anxiety fuel I felt sick and anxious reading this. Would not recommend.
Amazing I couldn't put this down! It is filled with twists and turns. The main twist was done so well, and you could see foreshadowing throughout the book.
Didn’t see that coming Good psychological thriller. Read it. Amazing the lives that other people lead. I will definitely be reading the next one.
A Deadly Maid ? The Housemaid is a book you won’t want put down. A thriller with unforgettable characters and a maid who kills.
Great book Great book
“tripe” - upgraded to “trash” For the first 50% I had a 5-letter review locked in: “Tripe”  I was almost shocked at the naive breathlessness of the diary-style jottings of a lusty Snow White fighting a wicked witch, flanked by two irresistibly chisel-jawed Adonises - one white and wealthy, one dark and earthy - both a coin flip away from her yearning loins.  But then the twist made me sit up and pay attention so I upgraded my 5-letters to “Trash”  And then I found myself sucked in - a bit like getting sucked in to the second half of a Charlie’s Angels episode just to see how Cheryl Ladd gets out of the burning cabin. I wanted to see what the author did with this twist.  Finally, when Nina was unlocking the attic door I was actually white-knuckled and silently screaming Noooooo!!! When it was revealed Andrew had been dead for 5 days I silently screamed Yessss!!!  So it’s still trash but I give her big credit for that.  Although when I realised there’s going to be a sequel, again I silently screamed Noooooo!!!
The service was fast and the book is great quality. I’ll definitely be ordering more books from this site. The quality of the book is great and the service was fast.
A very basic read The number of top reviews is rather perplexing. I expected a riveting read but instead received something very basic and rather disappointing.  Plot: The concept was promising and had the makings of a real trip. I won't go to into it because it will give away the ending. But the concept is the only reason I persisted to the end.  Characters: None were remotely likeable. Not even Millie. She had the personality of a door knob. Very little was offered in order to have them well-rounded characters. No little quirks or interesting personality traits.  Writing: This was the ultimate let down. The story is so bland and the writing so extremely basic. There isn’t one line of elegant prose or creative flair to be had.  The torture ideas were juvenile, including the reasoning behind it. I don't expect any gore but again, it all just lacked imagination. There was no tension, no mystery.  Overall, a disappointing read and the amount of top reviews is questionable. Perhaps most who read this aren't regular readers?
Gripping twisty tale WOW! What a ride! Superb story, totally nail-biting. Don't read this before bed...you can't put it down, and it's so intense and exciting you won't sleep.....
5 stars I couldn't put it down
cannot be guessed What a good read, there is almost no way to guess what is about to happen or what the twist is till halve way through the book. Great twists and keeps you guessing. Good writing and keeps you engaged.
top read Riveting from start to finish I love a book that gets you in the first few pages Right to the end with a bit of sweet revenge and strong woman !!!!
Want a Wicked Happy Ending! Loved this book! The twist is huge! An absolute page turner, couldn’t put it down… will leave you smiling. Off to buy the second one now!
Best Twister that I didn’t see coming!! Absolutely loved this twister of thriller! Had me itching to skip to the end. But had to force myself to read till the end so as not to miss the lead up to everything! So glad I did!
Loved the plot twist Finished this book in one day, followed by the second book a few days after. Cannot wait for the third one!
An amazing read This is my first Freida McFadden book and it did not disappoint! Such an easy read and great twists throughout. Now to decide what Freida novel to read next….
Love love Love this book. Easy to read and understand and it inspires me .
great book to read Reading this book open your eyes to the world and will help you understand what it is important in our lives or not
A wonderful perspective on passion and longevity This book was a page turner, easy to get through and brought home important messages of passion, purpose and practice. Would recommend this to anyone looking for their purpose or looking to enjoy the process of finding it
Amazing Amazing
A disappointing I purchased this book based on the general idea that it was going to be an in depth analysis and description of Ikigai. It began well, with a focus on the Japanese philosophy, but lost its way and became, in sections, a superficial glossing over of a variety of similar philosophies, yet without any quality connections between them and Ikigai. It felt like the authors had just googled Stoicism, or only just read Frankls 'Mans search for meaning', and added in their own paraphrased version sections of the book. At times it felt like a student's essay who was not quite an expert of the topic. Yet with apparently a year of prep for the book, and significant time spent in Okinawa, I was expecting depth and substance that would provide some more revelatory ideas on the topic.  This book could be a useful tool for someone who has never been exposed to any of these philosophies, although some, like yoga are quite common knowledge, as a starting point. For me, this was a disappointing purchase.
Ikigai is one of my all time favourites It was December of 2022 when I visited one of the shopping centers, took a stroll to an amazing space full of books, browse the stockpile and discover this little blue covered book. Sat there, read and never put down the book for awhile - until I realise I have to go for lunch.  Ikigai gives me joy when I read it first thing in the morning. It gives me so much insight about living a joyful and fulfilling life. Reading this book makes me want to be one of the centenarians myself - event hough I am way way younger. As for now, I’m still searching for my Ikigai. And one day when I finally know it, I will pursue and happily do it everyday.
Good A good price for a good book!
A Christmas gift for my eldest. My eldest has just returned from working in Japan - loves everything Japanese including this book which she highly rates as she has it on kindle and I brought her the hard copy not realising she had it already. That being said, it will still be used, as it IS the hard copy being an avid reader, she can re-read it in her own time... The ACTUAL book is ALWAYS better than the phone/tablet/computer version. The smell of a REAL book is by far one of the best smells. 😊
The title is misleading. I think the book is wrongly named. It should be called “The lives and times of the people of Okinawa and a mix of other bits and pieces of philosophies”. I’m still confused about what this book is actually about. It definitely doesn’t provide much help to find YOUR Ikigai as the subtitles suggest, unless that goal is just to grow old. The short passages about the lives of the people in the village of Ogimi in Okinawa are lovely and do touch on the inhabitants sense of Ikigai. However, this book is more a series of random observations and quotes that I could find in Google. It spends a lot of time describing the virtues of living a long life but then has snippets of various philosophies extolling the virtues of living in the here and now. I think the authors had little to write about and just rambled. The cynic in me suggests they found a good title and some buzz words and hoped it would be a best seller. And we all fell for it. Touché
Great Really liked
Doesn't tell you much you probably didn't know/guess already Readable but not engrossing.
Haven't read it but I heard so many good things about this book. Only disappointment is that the book came very dirty. If I want to read a book, I'd much rather prefer it to come clean and not filthy. While it doesn't affects the contents of the book, it is truly annoying and bothersome to look at the dirty cover every time I pick it up.
Interesting From my perspective, experiences and upbringing - this book does not have anything revelation worthy. But its a nice read. I do like that the authors kept it short, on point and brief.
Good Book Good book about the art of authentic living. Will re-read many times over, I'm sure. Thank you!
Hard bound book Handy and pocket size so inspiring book
Great read Bought this book for my wife and she loves it.
book interesting
As advertised As advertised
interesting The book is interesting. But I would have liked more about Ikigai as a concept. The information on ageing was fine.
Great Enjoyed
Ok Good for some quick easy read, but I feel like the authors focus on living longer. I personally prefer a meaningful life, regardless of length.
A beautiful book A brilliant way to re-think the way we live life. A beautiful book. I was gifted this by a friend and have since bought it to give to my siblings. Recommend.
Not recommend The book is a waste of money and time and I highly do not recommended
Interesting read but not a revolution I’d been meaning to read this book for a while. As it was Japanese in content but told through a western mindset. A lot of ideas similar to the works of Gretchen Rubin and Stephen Covey. Even a bit of Marie Kondo’s Spark Joy philosophy. If it’s not sparking joy - make a change. The interesting link between purpose and longevity is a good one and easy enough to understand. Living with purpose equates to less stress and longer life. 10 steps to longevity in the end - Nothing striking or groundbreaking revolutionary but similar trains of thought.
potpourri of longevity 101 - getting it all muddle-headed Leaning heavily on Dan Buettner’s Blue Zones, this book presents the 101 of longevity beyond Ikigai. It dabbles into nutrition, where it even mentions Dr Mosley’s 5:2 diet (and claims fasting “helps cleanse the digestive system” - a notion that probably would make Valter Longo cringe) and professes benefits of melatonin produced at sleep that aren’t the main health benefit of sleep (please read Prof Walker for that).  In short: this book has no direction, is imprecise on the science and would have been better if it had staid focussed on Ikigai. The excursions into Japanese spirituality and logotherapy I found interesting - and probably less offensive as I have never read anything about these topics before.  Rarely has a book made me so angry. Not only did I stop halfway in order not to waste my time further but I took the time to write this scathing review (I rarely write reviews and usually they are more flattering) to warn people.
Dirty cover Book in new condition but with dirty cover
such an amazing book I breadths book and brought more to gift
Pool quality Ordered as a present. Book came looking like a write off damaged product. Customer service was very good though
Brilliant inspirational book I loved how easy it is to read and adapt to your life, truly recommend to anyone at the fork in their life or just lost.
Exactly as described Arrived in perfect condition and in speedy time
I'm sure the book is great but mine arrived filthy. Would love to read it but with so much dirt all over the covers it isn't exactly a peaceful experience. Which is ironic considering the subject of the book.  Can't recommend.
A good read Many of us are fortunate not to have gone through world war, religion related wars and what not and yet most of us are not grateful for the good that we have. Buying into meaningless social status and material needs especially in this day and age. This book makes us look into ourselves and our lives.
Lovely book Good to keep by the bedside for affirmation. Great life lessons.
Nothing special The book’s content is quite shallow. Feel waste of money, really.
Great read Seems good and it isn't that lengthy
Less is More Beautifully written book that teaches humans to surrender to the moment and given tools to live a long and enjoyable life.
Simple and clean read Simple read and engrossing. Definitely touches the simple things which most of us have forgotten or are forgetting during these times.
Ikagia I bought this book for my son He loves it!! Anne T
Dissappointed Dissappointed.
Don't be cheated This book has nothing to do with Ikigai and just lists random references you can find easily from internet. And the term, ikigai, itself seem to be coined for selling the books. Really disappointed.
Ikigai This book is filled with wisdom! It is very important not just to live a long time but to live well. This book indicates a path for everyone.
Nice Short Read A good short read to put things into perspectives. Simple teachings that can lead to remarkable changes. Highly recommend :)
Read the last page Seemed full of good advice and well researched but summary at end probably was enough for most. An easy read.
Loved it! Great book. Really enjoyed reading it. Couldnt put it down. Very insightful. I could read it again and again and again.
Good read & insight Worth every cent Not that I'm hoping to live forever but the cultural insight is amazing
Nice book Book made a good read
xcz zxc
great read great read..highly recommended especially to all those who are in their pursuit of finding true happiness. give this book a try.
Special personal reference guide Lent by a friend loved it so bought my own
Nope. I am not okay with having stickers on my books. Would not recommend.
Birthday recipient loved it! Product was for recipient in Australia.
Worth the money Kids loved making gears and bots, it’s also compatible with other LEGO bricks.
Bought as a gift for an 8 year old Looks good but as given to someone as a gift cannot comment on its use.
D'occasion !!! Article reçu clairement d'occasion !il y avait des pièces manquantes dans la boîtes!!!! Je ne l'ai reçu qu'avec 9 pièces au lieu des 62 indiquées!!des papiers avait été déjà détaché comme si qq l'avait déjà ouvert!!!
Ha llegado rápido y bien Es un regalo para mi nietyo
it may have deteriorated over time or it may be a used item. It took about half a month for the product to arrive. The box was crushed and the book supplement was held in place with tape.（Different from original specifications.） I ordered a new one, but the tape that fixed was old, so it may have deteriorated over time or it may be a used item. The paper products inside showed no signs of use. My son liked it so I won't be returning it.
You need to break one character to build another one My son loved it, so engaging and creativity.
Carino! Per un bimbo di 8 anni è un idea regalo carina!
Very nice service. It was nice.
Lego Good product. Used for birthday gift. He enjoyed it
Interessante mas tem algumas peças de cartão que não funcionam bem Interessante mas tem algumas peças de cartão que não funcionam bem
Da veri appassionati di lego The media could not be loaded. In inglese ma con istruzioni semplici
Good les morceaux sont petit
Worth the money My son lived it .. perfect for gifting and very engaging
Great present This is my go-to birthday present for little boys when my son gets invited to a party. It's been on sale for a while so it's a great price point.
Gear Bots My grandson loved this!
Grandson A perfect gift for my grandson
Stimulating My grandson loves this. He’s very creative and loves to put things together and take things apart. It takes some thought so he can spend quiet time on this. He’s 7 years old.
Dur à Fabriquer L’enfant doit être accompagné pour faire l’activité, pas facile à placer
Nice gift for Lego fan Arrived promptly in good shape. Looks like fun in a box.
Fun This toy will give kids a chance to play and learn . Who knows, maybe our next lever engineers will be brought to light by a simple toy
Gear bots used to create infinite projects With the help of the Lego Gear Bot parts my Grandson can now expand his Lego world with making many different mechanical figures and machines.
Always a hit Got many of these this year a d gifted them as birthday presents. A big hit, parents & kids were happy
Great Disappointment! My grandchildren and l were very excited when we found this item. They are huge fans of Lego so the chance to make moving robots hit the spot and a family date was set to build robots. Don’t know if the thumbs down should go to Klutz or Lego for false advertising but they need to seriously look at how this was marketed because our grandchildren were incredibly disappointed when they opened the box to find only enough Lego pieces to make one robot at a time and any thoughts of imagination games derived from having 4-8 robots to play with at one times went out the window. Seriously how cheap and thoughtless this was. How difficult would have been to add enough pieces to make at least four robots at a time or at least warn the buyer that extra pieces are needed. So dissatisfied with this experience even though quality of what we got was the usual excellent Lego product, the misleading information left a nasty taste in my mouth.
Ok Not as interesting as lego sets. Paper parts are easily ripped
Looks great My grandson didn’t like it at all. He loves Lego but not this particular set. Shirley
Creative These are fun to create but I wish that it came with more lego pieces, you can only have one creation built at a time and have to take what you have made apart I order to build another. It would be nice to have pieces for all at once.
Damaged box I recieved package, Lego box was damage, tape was ripped on top on bottom, exposing the pieces for damage and the ink on the box ripped off. Item appeared squished. I did not have time to replace as I needed before Dec 9. Would not purchase again.
Great toy to keep your kids busy for hours My 9 year old asked me for this toy and it didn’t disappoint. There’s a lot of pieces to keep him busy!
Fun creative gift It was great! Simple enough to use for a 6 year old alone. I wish they would have enough to build 2 units at the same time.
The product looks used I'm very disappointed with the quality of the product. It's a book that is attached to a box of Lego. Looks like the book was read previously . The corner of the pages were rollind up. All corners were worn down. It looks like a used product.
Not worth the money not enough pieces of LEGO Didn’t come with enough pieces to build all the pieces . You have to build one and then dismantle it to build another one . I was disappointed with the product
Terrible. Gearbots have very few Gears. There's little Lego compared to think craft paper in this box.
Most beautiful book with easiest recipes Beautiful book!! The recipes are so easy to follow and so much content!! Great gift for mums and recipes my whole family enjoys
Great inspiration Great meal inspiration and good to see the recipe alternate ingredients
